Name: 1876-08-25-worchester_spy.txt
Date: 1876-08-25
Paper: Worcester daily spy
Paperkey: worchester_spy
Page: 1
City: worcester
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83021205/1876-08-25/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

New Jersey Day at the Centennial.

Philadelphia, Aug, 24.—President Grant, accompanied by Mrs. Grant,
Mr. and Miss Sharp, U.S. Grant, Jr., and Gen. Dent arrived here from
Long Branch this morning, and were received by Gen. Hawley and
Director General Goshorn. The president spent several hours in
Machinery hall, and before leaving the grounds received the Chinese
students in the judges’ hall.

Gov. Beadle of New Jersey was formally welcomed on his arrival at the
exhibition by Edmund C. Knight, and a reception committee of native
Jerseymen now residents of Philadelphia. At noon the judges’ hall was
crowded with a brilliant assemblage of visitors from New Jersey, and
Hon. Abraham Browning was introduced by Gov. Beadle as the orator of
the day, who had been appointed under the arrangement initiated by the
centennial commission for periodical addresses by orators from
different states, descriptive of the history and resources of such
states. Mr. Browning very ably reviewed the important developments of
the early and recent history of New Jersey, giving full and
interesting statistics, showing the immense progress made by that
state in the last fifty years. At the conclusion of the address the
visitors, headed by the First Regiment Band, proceeded to the New
Jersey building, where a grand reunion was held.

The paid admissions for today are estimated at 56,615.

An agreeable event occurred this evening on board the steamer New
Brunswick, moored at the foot of Walnut street. The supreme lodge of
Massachusetts Knights of Pythias gave a dinner to the members of the
supreme lodge of the world, and of other jurisdictions. Happy speeches
were made, and a very pleasant time generally enjoyed by those
present. Later in the evening the Fifth Massachusetts Regiment Band
gave a grand promenade concert in Horticultural Hall, at which many
prominent knights and their ladies were in attendance.
