Name: 1876-09-06-watertown_republican.txt
Date: 1876-09-06
Paper: Watertown republican
Paperkey: watertown_republican
Page: 1
City: watertown
State: WI wisconsin
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85033295/1876-09-06/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

Our Centennial Letter.

Philadelphia, Aug. 31, 1876.

Last Thursday was "New Jersey’s day." and the people from the land of
"water melons" turned out fifteen thousand strong. The admissions
amounted to about sixty thousand. They were welcomed by a committee,
the address being delivered in the Judges hall, by Hon. Abraham
Browning, who traced history from the time when Sebastian Cabot, in
1497, discovered that portion of the American coast lying between the
shoals of New Amsterdam and Florida; and carefully drew a sketch of
the conveyances which sprung from the titles of Carteret and Berkley,
upon which the present ownership of real property is founded. The
population of New Jersey has increased from 125,000 in 1776, to
1.200,000 in 1876. In the progress of education she stands thirteenth
on the list, leading twenty-five of her sister states, her school
property alone representing $6,000,000.  Her lands are fertile and
highly cultivated; her legislation unblemished, and her courts
impartial. With such wonderful advancement, New Jerseymen have a right
to feel proud of their native State. For years it was almost used as a
synonym of reproach, and was the subject of numerous puns and
conundrums in some of our musical halls.  But the people have done
everything to cultivate her soil with the most satisfactory results,
as her vegetation is good, her fruits luscious, and the lobsters,
oysters and other fish, which are so plentiful as to make her seaside
resorts points of attraction to people from all sections, are not to
be excelled.  She was among the first to co-operate, and steadfastly
support, with her sister States, the Centennial. Her state building is
the largest, most costly, and by many, considered the handsomest in
the enclosure. Her cereals and manufactures are most credible
displays; while her pottery and glassware cannot be outdone by any
American specimen. Her maribeds are very valuable as fertilizers, and
her wine growing is much improved. New Jersey has taken the
initiative, in setting apart a special day for visiting the
exposition. President Grant, accompanied by Mrs Grant, Mrs. and Miss
Sharp, U.S Grant, Jr., Gen. J.C. Dent and A. Hopkins, Esq., arrived
from Long Branch at the Centennial depot of the Pennsylvania railroad
company, opposite the exposition grounds, at 10:55 A.M. This
arrangement to come at this point, instead of the regular depot of the
company, was made out of consideration for his personal convenience,
as he had engaged a suit of rooms at the Trans-Centennial hotel in the
immediate vicinity of the grounds. The President was received by
Director General Gosham and Messrs. George W. Child and
O.E. Borie. His arrival was greeted by the first regiment band, which
was then awaiting the arrival of the New Jersey Gubernatorial party,
with "Hail to the Chief." He was then accompanied by the gentlemen
named, to the hotel where his party breakfasted. He came on to the
grounds about noon, going immediately to Machinery Hall.  After some
hours spent there, he proceeded to the Judge’s Hall, where he received
the Chinese students with their escort, Hon. B.G. Northrup,
superintendent of education, Connecticut. The students attracted much
attention, and not a little admiration, and expressed themselves as
very much pleased with their visit, especially at Machinery
Hall. After several very interesting addresses, they returned to their
hotels for the remainder of the day. Gen. Grant and family will remain
here eight days. They propose examining the exposition thoroughly.
One of the morning papers referred to the President’s failure to
participate in the Fourth of July ceremonies in Independence Square,
and says; 'Yet, after his experience here on the 10th of May, and the
slight put upon Mrs. Grant, which, whether intentional or not, was
exceedingly vulgar and ill bred, it is not strange that the latter was
little disposed to repeat her visit, or that Gen Grant would resent
such a slight, even more than he would an insult to himself."
Mrs. Grant throughout the trying ordeal of life at the White House,
has borne herself so modestly and well, and has shown herself so
thoroughly a lady, that we feel no little hesitation in dragging her
name into the columns of a newspaper; but so much has been said about
the President’s absence on the Fourth of July, that it seems only just
to tell the truth about it. When the President and Mrs. Grant and the
Emperor and Empress of Brazil had passed through the principal
buildings in the formal opening of the Exposition, it was not the two
ladies that were invited to dedicate one of the distinct departments,
but the Empress only, while the wife of the President was left to
entertain herself.  Mack.
