Name: 1878-08-04-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1878-08-04
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 16
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1878-08-04/ed-1/?sp=16
Title: 
Author: 
---

KEARNEYTOWN.

Arrival of the Chinese Embassy at San Francisco.

They Are Received by an Immense and Miscellaneous Crowd.

Peculiarities of Their Dress and Manners—Chinese Ladies.

Discovery of Gold on the Pacific Ocean Beach.

THE CHINESE EMBASSY.  Special Correspondence of The Tribune

San Francisco, July 27.—The uneasiness of the past week had ripened
into genuine alarm at the non-arrival of the City of Tokio, one of the
Pacific Mail Company’s immense propellers, when she was telegraphed
off the Heads at an early hour yesterday morning. She was nearly nine
days overdue.

The Pacific Mail Company is so luckless that many gave her up for lost
before she was a week overdue. But those really interested are so
accustomed to seeing the big propellers come In with something of
their complex machinery out of order, that they very rightly
attributed the delay to an accident to the machinery.

She broke her crank-pin in mid-ocean seven days out from Japan, and
was fourteen days under sail while the damage was being made good.

Old sailors consider the repairing a remarkable feat, and there are
large groups down at the docks admiringly inspecting the huge pin and
discussing the achievement.

But the delay of the City of Tokio was this time of more than ordinary
interest. Chinatown was in a fever, and its denizens might have been
observed in crowds on any headland which gave a water view, straining
their almond eyes to catch some glimpse of the expected ship freighted
with the great Chinese Embassy.

It came at last. The blue Imperial Dragon of China was sent spinning
up the highest flag staff of the big Palace Hotel, and basked boldly
on his yellow ground under the shine of the California sun. The town
was stirred from its dull quiet, and was alive with interest.

The Chinese went to the bottoms of their trunks and unearthed a set of
gorgeous paraphernalia which we of California have never seen before.

They wear their state robes only upon state occasions, and they have
heretofore had no state occasions in which the Americans participated.

Some forty open carriages were sent up to Chinatown to convey the
merchants’ delegation to the wharf to receive the Embassy.

They were clad in silks and satins many colored and bounteously
embroidered in gold and silver. The head-gear of the Chinese is always
peculiar. On this occasion their caps were observed to be of a new cut
from anything we had seen before, differently adorned, and surmounted,
one and all, by the significant button, varying in color according to
the degree of the wearer. They wore elaborately-tinseled garments,
which passed over the head like a priest’s mass-robes, but were much
smaller, and they carried fans which they waved incessantly.

They formed a glittering pageant as they went through the streets,
followed by the subdued growlings of the mob, who turned out in
liberal numbers.

They made no manifestation, for Kearney was on the railway, Eastward
bound, and they are helpless without a leader.

The dock was a confused mass of Pacific Mail employees, Chinese
delegations, curious sightseers, hundreds of the lower Chinese, and
the various everyday components of a wharf scene.

The Embassy received their friends in the saloon of the steamer before
disembarking. The ceremonials were formal to a degree. The Chinese
statesman has one comfort---he is not obliged to prepare a
speech. They clasp their hands, finger-tip to tip. salaam with stately
slowness twice till their foreheads almost touch the ground, then wave
them gently to one side, and pass away in a long stage step with
superb dignity.

During the entire ceremonial they exchange not one word.

As the suite of the Ambassador comprises some twenty-four persons,
exclusive of clerks and servants, the infinite salutations and the
inviolate silence made the scene exceedingly impressive.

His Excellency Chin Lan Pin sat in solitary state in his carriage as
he was conveyed to the Palace Hotel, and gave no evidence of being an
ordinary mortal until he confronted the elevator, which he only
entered with many misgivings and after much assurance of its safety.

The Chinese of the Embassy wear a dress somewhat different from the
California Chinese, the chief feature of which is a hat something
resembling a toadstool, or perhaps it is more like an inverted
chopping bowl. It is of pure white, and is adorned with a half wreath
of scarlet spiky willow feathers or horse-hair, with which the San
Francisco winds played sad havoc.

The six highest officials wear black plumes, as also black silk shoes,
and their hat buttons are of bright red, signifying their degree. The
three of them next in rank wear blue knobs, while the gold and crystal
buttons appertain to the next lower degrees.

Their lines of caste are very strictly drawn, and Chen Lan Pin, who
is, even at home, the second man in the Empire, surrounds himself with
most impenetrable dignity. He is the only one who found any difficulty
in adapting himself to American table customs, and on the voyage
retired always at dinner-time to the seclusion of his state-room and
silently wrestled with chopsticks over succulent morsels of his
national food.

He goes to Washington to establish the Consulate-General. Sit Ming
Cook goes to Washington with him, but returns to our coast to
establish the San Francisco Consulate.

He is a thoroughly well-educated man, a graduate, I believe, of Yale,
and speaks English fluently.

He is an immense favorite with Americans, having not only a very
progressive mind, but an extremely cordial manner.

He will be a little Czar among the Chinese in San Francisco, for his
authority, superseding that of the Six Companies, will be almost
absolute.

He indulges freely in the American custom of hand-shaking, as they all
do now that the formalities of greeting are over, and recognized many
old acquaintances as he lingered in the Palace court a few moments
waiting for the dreaded elevator.

The court itself was quite a strange scene with the throng of
bewildered foreigners and their mass of odd-looking luggage.

They quite outdo the Saratoga belle, for the Embassy brought no less
than sixty tons of luggage. It was principally done up in small
parcels, for the Chinese have not yet adopted the great unwieldy
trunk, and the parcels are of every form, color, and design. They have
all sorts of odd papers, pretty, fanciful curds, quaint-looking
hampers, and now and then a European valise, looking strange enough
among such fellows, but marked in some way with the peculiarities of
their grotesque taste.

It was cast in the careless way of the American baggage-slinger in one
great pile, which the porters thinned fast. I observed one Ambassador,
who wore quite an aristocratic-looking button, look long and
suspiciously at the thinning of the pile, and finally pick up some of
his traps himself and walk off with them.

He was speedily relieved by one of his own servants, who quite
resented the plebeian indignity his master had put upon himself,
although he followed the cue of his master in suspecting the negro
porters of any enormity.

The negro is the only American institution which has in any way
disturbed their equable calm. They regard him curiously at the table,
and contemplatively peer at his black hands as he passes them the
dishes of the New World.

He cannot be altogether a strange being to them, but they are
unaccustomed to him in numbers.

They have also been observed to glance quizzically at the sheath
dresses as the ladies pass them in the dining-room.

As a matter of course, only the minor members of the suite go to the
public table. The others remain in aristocratic seclusion and dine en
famille.

CHINESE LADIES.

The ladies of the suite have scarcely been seen of the vulgar
eye. They were packed in close carriages before the crowd at the wharf
suspected their identity, and conveyed to the hotel.

The life of a Chinese lady is one of utter seclusion. In fact, there
are said to be not more than a half-dozen in all California. During a
long residence here, I have never seen but one. I encountered her in a
photograph gallery, where she was haring a picture taken of herself
and baby to send home to China. She knew but one word in the English
language, "Mamma," and learned that of her servant in order to convey
the information that that was the Celestial lady for whom the
photographs were intended.

She was a pretty young creature, not more than 17, and had come to San
Francisco three years before, a bride. During those three years she
had never before left her apartments, and had seen white people only
from her window now and then.

Her feet were not quite so small as those of Tottering Lily, but two
servants sprang to her aid when she took more than four or five steps
at a time. Another carried the baby, and a third took charge of her
fan and other belongings.

She was richly clad, and jingled with bangles when she moved; Her
jewelry was principally of an opaque green glass, of which their
bracelets and earrings are chiefly made, and to which little intrinsic
value attaches, although they have occasionally some pretty specimens
of gold workmanship.

She was only the wife of a merchant of the better class. The seclusion
of the ladies of the nobility must be even more strictly maintained.
They would not be likely to go abroad to have their photographs taken.

The ladies of the Embassy have not been seen by the eye of man since
their arrival, but curious women haunting the corridors get a flashing
peep at their robes now and then, and hear their high, shrill voices.

The Embassy includes a Consul for Spain and one for Peru, to which
latter country many superfluous coolies have recently been shipped.

The hoisting of the Chinese flag was regarded as a matter of deep
significance. Unemployed workingmen hung around the hotel in groups
all day, casting dark glances of disfavor at its yellow folds, and
gloomily predicting fresh trouble.

The Chinese, on the contrary, were extremely jubilant. They held up
their heads with a new pride, even the humblest of them.

Ming Cook was assiduously interviewed throughout the day. He seems to
be spokesman of the party, although many of them speak good English,
and they are all men of superior education.

None, however, are of Royal blood excepting old Chin Lan Pin himself,
who traces his ancestry back through several hundreds of years.
Although he is the only one who has had any difficulty in adapting
himself to new customs, he is an old traveler, having been in the
United Slates in 1872 as Chief Commissioner in charge of the Chinese
students, and having also been in Spain on the same business.

He goes now both to Spain and Peru previous to taking up his permanent
abode at the Chinese Legation in Washington.

They occupy twenty suites of rooms at the Palace Hotel during their
stay. If they escape alive from the clutches of the interviewers
during this period of rest, they will start for Washington in one
week.
