Name: 1878-08-17-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1878-08-17
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 12
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1878-08-17/ed-1/?sp=12
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE EMBASSY.

Arrival of the Party at Hartford---Their Residence.

Hartford. Conn., Aug. 10.—The journals of
the country have published conflicting reports
as to the destination of the Chinese Embassy,
some asserting that the party would first visit
Washington to present credentials to the Government,
and others that the visitors would first
sojourn for a few days at Hartford for rest after
their extended trip and for consultation as to
future movements. Existing doubts were set
at rest this noon by the arrival of the Embassy
at the Asylum street depot; the party having
come from Niagara Falls via Albany and Springfield.
They occupied a Wagner palace car, in
which they had made the journey from Chicago.

There was no reception at the depot by the authorities, and the only
persons present to greet them were some of of the officials of the
Chinese Educational Commission in this city, who had been apprised of
their coming by telegraph. The Ambassadors and their attaches
immediately took carriages that were in waiting and were driven to the
"Chinese Building," prettily located on Collins street. In the "Hill
section" of the city, in which are the residences of a majority of the
wealthy people of the city.  Their baggage consisted of ninety-seven
different pieces and was a motley collection of leather trunks, wicker
baskets, cylindrical tin cases with conical tops, and rolls of goods
enveloped in wrappings. Each piece was marked "Chinese Embassy,"
printed upon a strip of paper in large type.

The Chinese building, which will be occupied by the Embassy during its
sojourn here, is spacious double edifice of pressed brick, with
brownstone trimmings. The style of architecture is a mixture of the
Elizabethan and Gothic, and surmounting the slate roof is a small
cupola, from whose flagstaff floats a Chinese flag, a yellow material,
with a black dragon in the centre and a red ball in the upper
left-hand corner.  The building sets some distance back from the
street, and leading to the front door is a double walk of flagstones,
bordered with beds of flowers. Entering by the easterly entrance, the
office is just to the right hand,—a medium-sized apartment, carpeted,
and fitted up with writing-table, safe, and its walls ornamented with
engravings. Adjoining is the reception room, neatly furnished with oak
furniture of the Eastlake pattern, and back of that is a small
dining-room, at present used by the principals of the Embassy.

On the lower floor of the west side of the building there is a
school-room, with desks and seats for about fifty students, the
furniture of oak and black walnut, and the teacher’s desk mounted on a
raised platform as in an ordinary school-room. Upon this desk, in the
vacation period, are piled a number of Chinese books of the peculiar
paper and more peculiar typographical appearance, and suspended at one
side of the room, against tho wall, are schedules of the routine of
the school day for the students, printed in Chinese, and specifying
the respective hours for rising, for breakfast, for study, and the
lessons in their order. All the students, for some years after their
arrival in this country, are required to remain under Chinese tuition
in this school for two weeks in every three months.  The remainder of
the time they are located at different points, engaged in the study of
the English branches, and acquiring a knowledge of American
customs. Thu object of this tuition in Chinese is that the boys shall
not become deficient in their familiarity with Chinese literature.

To the rear of the school-room is a dining room fitted with two large
tables, which will be occupied by the under-secretaries and other
attaches of the Embassy. All the viands are prepared and the meals
served on the American plan, the Educational Commission having decided
that this was preferable for the students, and no change has been made
pending the arrival of the Embassy. In fact, throughout the entire
building the American system is adopted in furnishing and everything
else. The bedrooms are in the two upper floors, some twenty in number,
and furnish ample accommodations. They are neatly, but not richly,
furnished. The walls all through the building are of hard white
polish, and the woodwork is of oak or ash, polished, no paint being
used any where.

The grounds are kept in excellent order, and the flower-beds are
filled with luxuriantly-blossomed shrubs and plants.  A vegetable
garden in the rear of the grounds is under good cultivation, and
to-day several of the members of the Embassy spent hours there
examining plants which were new to them and in exploring the interior
of a pretty little brick stable near by.

The Embassy will probably remain here for two or three weeks, the
new-comers familiarizing themselves to some extent with the locality
and customs of the residents. Chun Lan Pin, Chief Ambassador, resided
here for two years.  A member of the Educational Commission and
several of his subordinates have spent more or less time in this
country.
