Name: 1879-03-14-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1879-03-14
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 3
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1879-03-14/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Chinese Students in this part of the country have made friends for
that empire. It will be remembered that 120 boys were sent to this
country by the Chinese government a few years ago. These are still
here, except perhaps half a dozen who have been sent home on account
of sickness or bad behavior, and the boys are taking very kindly to
our manners. They are certainly making encouraging progress in their
education. At one time there were 13 of them in this city, and now
these five: Tong Siu Ye, Wong Yew Cheong and Siang Yu Ho at E.C.
Gardner’s, and Vun Zong Chow and Yung Kai at Dr Henry
R. Vaille's. Four of them are in the high school, one in the junior
class, and all stand well in scholarship; the other is in the Hooker
school. They have been in the country from three to six years, and
will go home as soon as graduated from college to responsible
positions in the civil service. The government pays their expenses,
amounting now to between $500 and $600 a year each, those at the high
school paying $50 a year tuition. They have from $1 to $4 a month for
spending money, according to age, and their peculiar garments are sent
from China, the material not being obtainable in this country. These
boys converse intelligently, and with much purer pronunciation than
many Europeans who have been here a score of years.  In regard to
religion, they are entirely untrammeled by home instructions and
attend our churches and Sunday-schools, where they show marked
attention and interest. In short, their experience shows what the
people of this part of the country have never doubted, that the
inhabitants of the celestial empire are capable of making good
American citizens. There are only three older representatives of China
in this city, Charlie Ar Wing, employed in the needle-shop and
proprietor of a tea store, Low Tuck, who tends the former's store, and
Hope Sing, a launderer. Wing was naturalized last fall.
