Name: 1879-02-20-jackson_standard.txt
Date: 1879-02-20
Paper: The Jackson standard
Paperkey: jackson_standard
Page: 1
City: 
State: OH ohio
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85038180/1879-02-20/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

COOK'S LECTURES.

The Prelude---The Chinese in America.

San Francisco, a brave city, hardly dares utter her mind on the
Chinese question, when her sandlot orators threaten conflagration,
riot, and murder. Loafers and roughs, led by a gang of shallow and
foul mouthed cheap jacks, mostly of foreign birth, fill the ears of
Californians daily with threats of fire, blood, and devastation. I am
a friend of the working man, but not of rioters, tramps, thieves,
sneaks, and thugs. Anti-Chinese clubs crack the defiant whip of
lawlessness over the heads of California's Mayors, Governors, and
Senators. This business may succeed for a day and an hour in a city
famed once for its deadly vigilance committee, but it will not succeed
in the long course of events. It may succeed with one State, under a
corrupt Legislature but it will not succeed with the nation. San
Francisco is afraid of her sand-lots. Massachusetts is
not. [Applause.] She has seen their chief orator. The leader of
sandlot oratory, by his odious advocacy, sunk an astute popular leader
beneath the Sea of Massachusetts politics. No political party can swim
in Eastern waters with Kearneyism hung around its neck. The supporters
in Congress of an unconstitutional bill against Chinese emigration
should remember that their action may some day hang about their necks
a millstone, and that they may wish, as the Massachusetts politician
did on the day of his defeat, that his principal supporter were not on
the sandlots but under them [Laughter.]

The three despised races on this continent are the negroes, the
Indians and the Chinese. That part of the nation which did justice to
the first of these races will ultimately do justice to the others. The
crack of the hoodlum's lash in national politics is too much like that
of the slave driver's whip to be popular, and it is near enough like
it to be its echo.--- I doubt whether the crack of the whip of the
hoodlum is much more agreeable to the Supreme Powers above us than the
sound of the slave driver's lash was. A craven and apologetic attitude
before the latter has not been justified by history, and as little
will a similar crouching attitude before the former be an object of
admiration to posterity. The sound of the slave driver's whip has
passed out of hearing, and so will that of the hoodlum's sibilant
thongs. The chief danger from each is in the tendency of cowardice and
ease under threats to depart from straightforward justice, and fall
into fright and compromise.

Only three men of national reputation for statesmanship have thus far
expressed an opinion on the Chinese question.  When Secretary Seward
was in California, on his trip around the world, he was asked to visit
the Chinese quarter, in order to convince himself that Chinese
immigration was fast poisoning California.--- He was invited by the
Chinese themselves to visit the same quarter, in order to see how
industrious and harmless and profitable that colonization is in this
country. He refused to accept either invitation, but took pains to put
on record his firm protest against the exclusive policy so loudly
insisted on by small partisans, and his conviction that immigration
and expansion are the main and inseparable elements of civilization on
the American continent, and nowhere more so than on the Pacific
Coast. Any attempt to stifle or suppress these invigorating forces, he
thought, must certainly fail. We need good police regulations, no
doubt, for Chinamen and hoodlums.  We need better enforcement of
existing laws, but Seward was of opinion that there is no change
needed in the Constitution of the United States on account of the
desire of the sandlot workingmen for a monopoly of cheap labor in
California. Senator Morton, the Chairman, and the only strong man of
the Congressional committee sent to California in 1876 to investigate
the Chinese question, is the second statesman who has taken this
position. The greatest orator of New England, with all the emphasis of
his glorious, lifelong career, has put himself on the side of the
oppressed in California.  He regards the anti-Chinese crusade as one
of the most heartless and contemptible attacks that one class of low
paid laborers has ever made on another. Only O'Connell himself, he
thinks, could properly ridicule the Irish and the German emigrant, the
Dutch, the Bohemian, Pole, Swede, who, not yet naturalized in this
country, or whose fathers were unknown here, are attacking other
emigrants as not Americans! Mr. Phillips is not usually charged with
lack of sympathy for workingmen, but he has had the courage to
disagree utterly with sandlot oratory.

The danger of an avalanche of Chinese emigrants is vastly
exaggerated. What has happened? We have had twenty years of Chinese
emigration, and there are only about 200,000 Chinese now in the
country. There has been no barrier to emigration; there has been a
great field for cheap labor in Pacific Railway construction. We have
received in twenty years fewer Asiatic emigrants than we often receive
of European emigrants in a single year. If in the last twenty years,
under all the stimulation of emigration, we have brought over but this
small number, how are we sure that American institutions are to be
buried under an immense avalanche of Asiatic emigrants in the time
just ahead of us? I believe that the bugbear of the enormous avalanche
from China is absurdly emphasized. It is a hoodlum boguey. It ought
not to frighten us, even if it be magnified by political
necromancers. Our population is doubling every thirty years. We are
soon to have 100,000,000 people here born on our soil. The man who
remembers that we have 200,000 from Europe every year landing on this
Atlantic Coast, and is frightened by the landing of the same number
from the Asiatic Coast on the Pacific side during fifteen or twenty
years, is not estimating at its proper value the recuperative vigor of
the American nation. We have succeeded on the Atlantic seaboard, we
have succeeded even in New York, in holding our heads above water
while the Irish deluge and the German has come in. We have the fifth
German city in the world at the mouth of the Hudson. We have the
second Irish city in the world there, and yet we are not altogether
ashamed of New York. More than half the imports of the United States
yet pass through her harbor, and she is yet an American city.  We
shall be proud of San Francisco if she manages an immigration half as
large as well as New York has done her Irish and German and Italian
and Polish and Bohemian influx.

I beg leave to insist upon the fact that the Chinese emigration thus
far has done more, and far more for this country, financially, than
the Irish did when the Irish was no larger. [Applause.] We have
official statistics showing that 60,000 Chinese now in California
contribute to the annual revenue of the State over $15,000,000. Did
any 60,000 Irishmen among the first who came over ever do as much as
that? [Applause.] Let us have the truth on this topic, no matter whose
prejudices are offended. We have official information that the amount
of duties paid by the Chinese importers into the Custom House of the
port of San Francisco is $1,800,000; freight and passage money in
ships from China, $650,000; rent for stores and storage, $1,000,000;
for State licenses and taxes $2,250,000; for American products in San
Francisco, $1,100,000; for water rates for Chinese miners, $2,200,000;
for mining claims bought by Chinese miners, $1,350,000; for American
products in the State, $5,000,000. (Among the official documents which
must be compared on the Chinese question are Senator Morton's minority
report, and that of the majority in the Committee of Investigation in
California in 1876, the California State publications, and the
memorials sent to Congress by the six Chinese companies. See also
Kwang Chang Ling's letters to the San Francisco Argonaut, and the
Rev. O. Gibson's volume on "The Chinese in America.")

The Surveyor General of California says the Chinese have increased the
value of the property in California $200,000,000, and this property to
day is held by white men. Have any 200,000 Irish done as much as that
for California? [Applause.]  Where is the sandlot orator that dare say
that his race on the Pacific Coast has added $290,000,000 in value
within ten years to the property in California held by white men?
[Applause.] These Chinamen have, according to official statements,
reclaimed a million acres of marsh lands which were worth $3 an acre,
and now are worth $100 an acre, and each one producing seventy-five
bushels of wheat.  These enterprises have given employment to 500,000
white men, and these men now turn on their benefactors. I undertake to
say that there has not been on the face of the globe, since the first
emigration of the English to this country, as profitable an emigration
as these official figures show. [Applause.]

If I speak of justice to capital, I shall be accused, of course, of
being bought.  As I heard the sandlot orator say once, and it is the
best thing I ever heard him utter: "There is not money enough in the
United States to buy a hair of my heard." [Applause.] I have been
criticizing capital here until I have shown at least my
impartiality. If you go into California, as scores of my friends who
have brought me information have done, you will find that capital at
large, as represented by the great managers of manufactories, and
ranches and extensive farms, is in favor of Chinese immigration under
good police regulations in San Francisco, and fair construction of the
Burlingame treaty. On the whole the substantial part of the population
of California speaks of Chinese emigration favorably. This morning a
gentleman who has spent months in San Francisco told me he had talked
with at least a hundred owners of property and leaders of public
sentiment, preachers, professors, teachers, merchants and that he had
not in his long residence in San Francisco found one man or woman
opposed to Chinese immigration. [Applause.] It is very well understood
not only that there are two sentiments on this topic in California,
but that the reason why the more conservative sentiment does not make
itself heard is because sandlot oratory threatens riot and
conflagration, and is so little under the control of the San Francisco
police that the city sleeps as it were on its musket. There is not a
church with any spiritual life in it on the Pacific Coast that has not
a class in its Sunday school for Chinamen. The certainty is that more
than 3,000 Chinese answer to the roll call in evening mission schools
in San Francisco, and study successfully the English language. Over
3,000 attend Sabbath school; 1,000, it is supposed, have accepted
Christianity; it is certain at least that more than four hundred have
been baptized. There are a thousand Chinese children born in this
country. We have two hundred Chinese students in American colleges and
preparatory schools, and some of them outranked our best
boys. [Applause.]

Do you say that there can be no assimilation between the races?
Nitro-glycerine! That is the proper metaphor for the relation of
Irishmen to Chinese; and because this topic is so explosive we are
asked by a few ministers in San Francisco, I believe it is said we are
asked by the general association of Congregational churches there, to
adopt the exclusive policy.

There are Orangemen in Eastern cities, who do not like other Irishmen,
and there is collision here between these two ranks of our
citizens. We have had bloodshed here in the Orange riots. Are we to
debar Irish immigration on account of this local difficulty?
Nitro-glycerine!  We have enough of it in New York City, and
explosions occur there often. On account of the explosive relations of
the Sandlots and the Chinamen are we to take the side of the Sandlots?
Why, what we do in the East here is to put our hand a little roughly
on the shoulder of both Orangeman and his opponent and say, "Peace!
order!" If the Mayor of San Francisco, if the Governor of California
wishes to represent the sentiment that will carry the votes of the
serious parts of this land; if there is to be union between the best
politicians of California and the best of the country in the next
Presidential election, the thing for San Francisco to do is to keep
order, not only in Chinatown but on the sandlots; to seize by the nape
of the neck the mob-ocracy and the hoodlum quarter of San Francisco,
and if necessary, by the nape of the neck the Chinese quarter also,
but at any hazard to keep both in order, to preserve the fundamental
principles of our national policy, and to make first pure and then
peaceable the Pacific Coast, so far as it is trod by cheap
labor. [Applause.]

The courage of Seward, of Morton, and of Phillips has not been
imitated in Congress. What is the trouble with the majority of the
lower house at Washington?  Everybody understands, or ought to, that
the Congressional and Presidential votes of California are prizes held
up and shaken in the face of politicians. These glittering baubles
have so confused the mind of the majority of the lower house that by a
vote of 155 to 72 they have denied the right of any American
shipmaster to bring to this country more than fifteen Chinamen at a
time. I am not taking ground against all limitations of Chinese
immigration. If there should ever be an avalanche from China, or from
any other country, perhaps we might moderate it a little, but there is
no call yet for effort in that direction, except from politicians in
search of capital. The majority in the lower house at Washington,
acting under the party whip, is ready to violate treaty stipulations
with a friendly power. The House of Representatives holds up the
Burlingame treaty as a paper Chinese lantern, and at the prompting of
hoodlums, delivers a blow through it into the face of China. This is
not action fit for Congress. If approved by the Senate and the
Executive it would bring reprisals in China. American trade can be
shut out of Chinese ports. Great Britain is the owner of the port of
Hong Kong, and we are likely to be brought into collision with the
British power if we put too many restrictions upon the action of ship
masters in British waters. I suppose we have no more right to restrict
the action of a shipmaster in Hong Kong than in Liverpool harbor. It
is a place covered by a British treaty with the United States. Then,
again, how silly is the idea, several times proclaimed in a late
Congressional debate, that it takes only one nation to make a
treaty. One nation can make a law, but it takes two nations to make a
treaty and a treaty, as we have been taught, is a part of the supreme
law of the land.

There is a provision that the sixteenth emigrant who offers himself
for passage on any American vessel shall be excluded. When the Chinese
Embassy came across the Pacific it had more than fifty in its train,
and could not have been brought on one ship, according to the proposed
legislation. If ever the Chinese Emperor should send another embassy,
we should be obliged to bring them on several vessels, under this new
regulation. There is ludicrous inappositeness, too, in such hasty
action on the part of the lower house, when the upper house and lower,
together with the President, were in correspondence with China on the
topic of this treaty. There is a Chinese Embassy, too, in Washington
but, under the spur of a desire to catch Congressional and
Presidential votes from the Pacific Coast, a political party has
committed itself to the Chinese policy of building a Chinese wall.

The lesser Eastern question has become the greater. What is the lesser
Eastern question? The fate of Turkey on the Bosphorus. What is the
greater?  The regeneration of Asia. The Chinese question in California
is an outlying portion of the greater Eastern problem. As such I, for
one, always look upon this burning American topic and find in it only
the portico to the immense international topic---a greater Eastern
problem of colossal proportions---the regeneration of Asia. California
a door to Asia! The meeting of the vanguard of civilization in its
march toward the West with the old conditions of men yet existing in
the rear guard in the East! The front rank of the army likely to
suffer somewhat, indeed, but the rear ranks urging on the front!
California so placed that she can not evade commercial intimacy with
China! California called on to take into her hands the carrying trade
of the Pacific! California compelled to educate Chinamen that they may
educate their own land! California called on to do justice in America
in order that ultimately we may have a moral foothold to procure
regeneration for Asia as a whole!  That is the Chinese question as our
Sumner saw it when the Chinese Embassy came here. You put the
representatives of China into Faneuil Hall. You gave them a banquet
with your most honored public men. You put at the side of the Chinese
Ministers Mr. Emerson, Mr.  Sumner, and Mr. Burlingame, of whom you
were then proud, but whose measures are now being attacked in Congress
by fifth and tenth rate politicians as unwise. He had opened
commercial gates of China, and you had enthusiasm in Boston as to the
possibilities of the future. Rufus Choate was once greatly praised for
saying "The gates of the Rocky Mountains are opening, on golden hinges
turning." You thought when the Chinese Embassy came here, and you put
your Sumner and your Emerson at their side to point out the signs of
the times, that the great gates of the Pacific were opening, and that
the day might come which Carlyle has predicted, when the Pacific will
be to the modern world only what the Mediterranean was to the Roman
Empire.

You send a letter around the world now in ninety six days. Caesar
could not drive around the Mediterranean in less than a hundred. If
there were unities of a deep political sort among the nations in the
old Roman Empire, why may there not be unities of a deep commercial
sort, at least, among the nations surrounding the smaller
Mediterranean which we call the Pacific! The regeneration of Asia!
Why, it has as much practical value to us in Christian and commercial
and political discussion as the regeneration of any outlying province
of old Rome had to the empire in Caesar's day. We are as near China as
Caesar was to the Straits of Gibraltar. We are as near Japan as Caesar
was to the cataracts of the Nile. Indeed, if you measure space by the
time needed to traverse it, the whole world's circuit now is, not
greater than that of the Mediterranean was in his day. Our
missionaries on a thousand hillsides in the desolate quarters of
Chinese paganism regard it as settled that there are no foreign lands.
Our ocean transit, our railway transit, are becoming so perfect that
the world no longer is a system of landlocked lakes; it is one
ocean. The voice of Almighty Providence calling for the regeneration
of China contrasts itself, as the greatest modern political and
religious theme, with this small pining cry of a narrow minded
anti-Chinese crusade on the Pacific Coast. To which will you
listen---to the crack of the hoodlum's whip or to the voice of
Providence requiring America to do justice, and to occupy her
opportunities? The question is whether you will listen to what God has
said in our history concerning despised races, and take instruction
from the penalties we have suffered for injustice in the past, and do
your duty at this time to a race, not with 4,000,000 in it, but with
four hundred millions. The great Eastern question presents an exigency
which, in its relation to the whole world, has an importance
comparable to the importance belonging to the slavery contest in our
own land.

You say that when I take this point of view I suggest precisely the
reason why we should be cautious about an immense Chinese
immigration. Four hundred millions of people in the Chinese Empire!
Can they not easily spare fifty millions, or as many as we now have in
the United States? Is is not a question whether the United States will
become New China?  I face that inquiry; but, if you please, we must
beware of statistics, when none have been taken in the Chinese Empire
for a hundred years. Rather more than a century ago statistics were
collected showing that China had two hundred millions of people, and I
know the standard writers on statistics say there are now between four
and five hundred millions of people in China, but our last information
is that this is a great overestimate. I hold in my hands here a
summary of the very remarkable letters just published in San Francisco
by a Chinese mandarin and literate of the first rank.  He is perhaps a
politician, but he has succeeded in shaking public confidence as to
the average estimated population of China. He thinks the population of
the Celestial Empire has decreased in the last 100 years. His
conclusion is that probably there are not 200,000,000 of people in
China to day. There has been no census taken in China for the last 100
years, simply because it was supposed a deficit in the population
would be revealed. I presume that the estimates by this mandarin are
under the mark, nevertheless 1 confess my confidence is shaken in the
statement that there are between four hundred and five hundred
millions in China.

The Pacific Coast needs manufacturers. Labor is so costly in
California that manufacturers there can not compete with the East. The
influx of Chinese labor will make it possible to apply capital
advantageously to the diversification of industry in California.

The Chinaman's standard of living will grow higher. His competition
with the American laborer will thus become less dangerous and excite
less class rancor.

I have an aspiration concerning the Pacific Coast, as well as the
Atlantic, and John Bright express it. "There is an other and far
brighter vision before me," this friend of the working poor and of
free institutions said in a speech at Birmingham, December 18, 1862,
in the darkest days of our civil war, when aristocrats hoped for a
division of the American Union. "I see one vast confederation
stretching from the frozen North in unbroken line to the torrid South,
and from the wild billows of the Atlantic westward to the calmer
waters of the Pacific main, and I see one people, one language, and
one law and one faith, and over that wide continent the home of
freedom and a refuge for the oppressed of every race and clime."
[Applause.]
