Name: 1877-08-12-new_york_herald.txt
Date: 1877-08-12
Paper: The New York herald.
Paperkey: new_york_herald
Page: 14
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030313/1877-08-12/ed-1/?sp=14
Title: 
Author: 
---

"MUCHEE WIFEE."

A DISTINGUISHED CHINESE OFFICIAL AS A BIGAMIST.

Hartford, Conn., August 11, 1877.

A couple of years ago a distinguished Chinese mandarin came to
Hartford as one of the Commissioners in charge of the educational
interests of the Chinese students in this country, being associated
with Yung Wing, who has general control of the matter as the
accredited Minister to the United States. The gentleman first referred
to writes his name Ngeu Ngoh Leung, but introduces himself. as nearly
as the sounds can be represented in English, as "Mr. Ow." His domestic
impedimenta on the occasion of his arrival included a formidable array
of Chinese bales and boxes, and last, buy by no means least, two
Chinese ladies, the younger one decidedly prepossessing in appearance.
Mr. Ow effected an early lease of a charming residence adjoining that
of one of Hartford's leading merchants, on Asylum avenue, in the heart
of the aristocratic portion of the city, and set up housekeeping on a
mixed Chinese and American plan. As Chinese students and the officials
accompanying them have been a frequent sight in Hartford for years
past "Mr. Ow's" advent was not especially noticed, but the ladies
residing in the vicinity scanned with curiosity the two Chinese women,
the first of high rank that had visited the city. Very little was seen
of them, however, for, according to the rule among the upper classes,
they seldom appeared in public, and curiosity had to be appeased with
their occasional appearance at the windows or on the grounds of their
residence.  It was observed that they appeared extremely affectionate
toward each other, and the theory was accepted that the oldest was the
wife of the Commissioner and the other her sister.

During the present week, however, this theory has been completely
shattered. About four or five months ago the lady understood to be the
Commissioner's wife gave birth to a child, and this week the
neighborhood was shocked with the report that there had been another
birth. The gossips involuntarily exclaimed, "What, so soon!" and
speculated on the wonderful fruitfulness of women of the Orient, until
the fact got out that in this instance the reputed sister was the
mother. Then a question arose as to the domestic status of the lady,
and, not anticipating polygamy, the natural inference was rather a
severe reflextion on Mr. Ow. Up to this time his plurality of wives
had not been spoken of by his friends, for prudential reasons, and
even Yung Wing, the Chinese Minister, who has become fully
Americanized, and married a sister of Dr. Kellogg, of this city,
recently, never referred to the domestic affairs of his associate,
although aware of their peculiar nature, from an American point of
view. However, the occurrence of two births in the household within a
brief period necessitated an explanation, and it was readily assumed
that the people here would be more lenient toward a confessed dual
marital relation than they would be if the statement that one of the
ladies was a mistress was permitted to pass unnoticed. On the
hypothesis the friends of the Commissioner have stated the facts in
the case, and it appears that Ngeu Ngoh Leung married both ladies in
China, and, upon being ordered here by his government, ventured to
bring his household treasures with him, ignorant or careless of the
unpleasant position in which such a course might eventually place him.

The affair has furnished a toothsome piece of news for the gossips,
and some prurient prudes are much agitated over it. The Commissioner
would have preferred to maintain the secrecy of his domestic affairs;
but, finding them revealed, is disposed to make the best of it,
relying upon his official position and the good sense of the people
here to avert any possible unpleasant consequences.
