Name: 1874-11-12-milan_exchange.txt
Date: 1874-11-12
Paper: The Milan exchange.
Paperkey: milan_exchange
Page: 1
City: milan
State: TN tennessee
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn86053488/1874-11-12/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Christian Chinee.

The efforts which have been made to open the Chinese Empire to foreign
commercial speculation and to the influences of Christian
civilization, have been hindered so much by the exclusiveness of the
Chinese system that the belief is generally entertained that the
flowery kingdom is perfectly well-satisfied with its own ancient pagan
civilization, and that the celestials are of the opinion that they
have nothing to learn from the outside world. China has, however,
yielded to the progressiveness of the age and the spirit of
internationality, and to-day hundreds of her youths are in foreign
countries seeking the advantages of modern education and acquiring
habits of thought and action that will eventually do more towards
bringing their country into the great commercial circle of nations
than all the diplomacy of Europe and enterprise of America can ever
accomplish if left to their own resources.

The "Chinese Educational Mission" is rather a singular caption for a
letter dated at Springfield, Massachusetts, and might lead one to
suppose that China had turned the tables on our missionary
establishment and left our Christian missionaries to wrestle with the
three or four hundred millions of pagans on the other side of the
Pacific, while a delegation of slant-eyed disciples of Confucius had
come over here to teach us some of the oldest civilization in the
world. But the purpose of the "educational mission" is not to teach us
but to look after the interests of the Chinese students who have been
sent to our colleges. Years ago some of our missionaries induced a few
young men who had acquired the rudiments of an English education in
the missionary schools in China to come to the United States and go
through a thorough collegiate course. Some of our elder institutions
of learning turned out quite a number of Chinese graduates, most of
whom on returning to their native land engaged in commercial life, and
a few of whom devoted themselves to an effort to induce the Government
to undertake the foreign education of a certain number of youths each
year.

Among these latter was Mr. Chang Laisun, a graduate of Hamilton
College, at Clinton, New York, and Mr. Yung Wing, a graduate of Yale
College, who, after their return to China, and after continuous effort
of eighteen or twenty years, finally induced the government to send
one hundred and twenty students in four installments of thirty each
year. The Emperor appropriated over a million and a half of dollars
for the support of these boys while pursuing their studies in this
country, and fixed the limit of their stay at fifteen years. Every one
of these young men has been or is being educated to a learned
profession, and there can be little doubt that the influence they will
exert upon their native land will be most extended and
beneficial. Mr. Chang Laisun who holds an intimate and prominent
position under the throne, is the commissioner to the United States in
the educational interests of these young representatives from his own
country, and has established his headquarters at Springfield,
Massachusetts. He has recently, by accident, learned of the presence
in this country of the missionary who gave him his first instruction
in his own land, and the letters to his early benefactor furnish the
facts which we have given. His letters are written in English, and
with an ease that would do credit to an American, and he states that
English is his household language, although his children are also
taught Chinese.

Next year Mr. Chang Laisun will return to China to take a number of
Chinese boys to England and Germany, his government having determined
to extend the system that has thus far been attended by such
satisfactory results.--Louisville Courier-Journal.
