Name: 1874-10-31-evening_star.txt
Date: 1874-10-31
Paper: Evening star
Paperkey: evening_star
Page: 7
City: washington
State: DC district of columbia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83045462/1874-10-31/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

From the Flowery Land.

ADVENT OF CHINESE COMMISSIONERS AND STUDENTS IN PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE---
THE BARRIERS OF TRADITION GRADUALLY CRUMBLING AWAY.

Among the passengers on the Pacific mail steamship Japan, which
arrived from China this forenoon, were thirty Chinese students,
ranging from ten to fourteen years of age, in charge of two
Commissioners and a teacher of the same nationality, who are
designated on the list as guardians. The party proceeded to the
Occidental Hotel, where several of the leading Chinese merchants of
the city and a member of the Bulletin staff were readily granted an
audience.  The senior commissioner, Kwong Ki Chin, an affable and
intelligent man of about thirty-five years, and one who occupies a
high position in his own land, conducted conversation in English with
remarkable ability, considering the fact that he had never before
visited America, and manifested a familiarity with and regard for the
grammar of the language which is often lacking in the average American
citizen. The visitors in the suite of apartments occupied by the
guardians included the venerable Chinese clerk of the Bank of
California, whose copious and comprehensive explanations of various
features of this educational enterprise were highly acceptable to all
concerned.  Associated with Mr. Chin, in the capacity of commissioner,
is Ki Chan He, another distinguished Chinese official, and Lun U
Koong, a school-master of considerable repute in Shanghai.  The burden
of conversation fell upon Mr.  Chin. Regarding the practice that has
obtained of dispatching Chinese students to America, the commissioner
said that his country aimed to obtain a thorough knowledge of our
people through a medium controlled by herself.  The students were
selected from among the brightest and most studious pupils of schools
in Shanghai, which he termed the central and most important port of
China. Many districts were represented in the ranks of the students
from the fact that Shanghai was one of the educational foci, and
attracted students from different directions. The choice of students
is conducted under the auspices of the government in a strictly
impartial manner, and involves the old Jeffersonian test: Is he
honest?  Is he capable? The selection is based upon the pursuits of a
competitive examination, which is equally fair for the rich and the
poor. This fact Mr. Chin desired to impress upon his auditors in
unmistakable terms, and he appeared to thoroughly understand its
assimilation with the principles of modern republican institutions.
After the selection of the students is effected, and an endorsement
has been published by the proper officers of the empire, the list of
names is suit to the office of the American Legation at Pekin, for the
approval of the United States Minister. Diplomatic correspondence
between the minister and department of state in the empire, and the
minister of the department of state in America concerning the proposed
visit of the students to this country, continues for the orthodox
period, and the departure finally takes place. The present delegation
of students were the recipients of numerous courtesies at Shanghai, a
few days prior to the sailing of the steamer.  The mayor of the city
tendered them a reception at which were the Mandarin or
courtdress. Mr. Chin says that the affair was brilliant and
interesting. A feature of the demonstration was the address of the
mayor to the students, in the course of which he exhorted the lads to
remember that the mother country had paid the expenses of this
expedition in pursuit of learning, and to her was due a great debt of
gratitude. Her young people going into a strange land should be
particularly careful to so conduct themselves that China would not be
mentioned save in terms of respect.  The students should be studious
and obedient, and remember the reverence due the traditions of the
empire. The reception given by the mayor was followed by an interview
with Consul general Seward, who also gave the students friendly
advice. The passage to San Francisco was devoid of special incident,
and the health of the party continued unimpaired. The students were
destined for Hartford (Conn.). At that point measures have been taken
for their instruction upon a plan inaugurated months since. The sixty
Chinese students now in Connecticut are divided into six divisions,
and attend different academies within easy reach of Hartford. A
Chinese school is in session in that city, and this institution
demands the attention of the divisions, in regular succession, two
weeks at a time. Thus for every eight weeks of English study the
students have two weeks of Chinese. The idea of this division of
study, as explained by Mr. Chin, is in order that the students may
follow the example of their ancestors in clinging to the opinion that
there is no place like home. The party will remain here until Tuesday
next, and may be the recipients of a public reception.---San Francisco
Bulletin 21st inst.
