Name: 1887-03-20-daily_bee.txt
Date: 1887-03-20
Paper: Omaha daily bee
Paperkey: daily_bee
Page: 10
City: omaha
State: NE nebraska
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn99021999/1887-03-20/ed-1/?sp=10
Title: CHINESE-AMERICAN STUDENTS.
Author: 
---

CHINESE-AMERICAN STUDENTS.

Some Account of the Boys that Came to America for an Education.

New Haven Register : J. Crossett, of this city , writes to the
Springfield Republican, some account of what has become of the
students sent from China to Hartford in 1880. Mr. Crossett, being
interpreter of the Chinese educational commission located in Hartford
at that time. He says: "I met Lin Poy Chuen at Hong Kong last summer
as he was starting for a port on the great river. He gave me his
address---United States consulate, Chin-kiang, China. His brother-in-law,
Wun Ping Chung is also at this consulate. Lin Poy Chuen would, I
think, make an excellent assistant teacher or superintendent in an
institution for deaf mutes in Shanghai or Hong Kong, if some
philanthropist should establish one in China. He became much
interested in the one at Hartford, and expressed to me earnest desire
to help his afflicted countrymen in a work of that kind. Who will open
a correspondence with him upon that subject? Wong Shing was for a
short time commissioner at Hartford, but now, is in business at 15
Peel street, Hong Kong. In going up the river to Canton, one passes a
military school at Wampoa, where two of the young men are teaching---
Chinn Tien Yew and Soo Yu Chinu. As both were away, I did not meet
them. Liang Tun Yen is in the governor-general's office at Canton,
where he has the responsible position of controlling all the telegraph
despatches, and could not be seen by an outsider.

"At the same office, but in another department, was Kwang Chi Chin,
who spent some years at Hartford in preparing an English dictionary
and phrase books for the instruction of his countrymen. He has never
added the Chinese half of his dictionary. He was not a student in this
country, but came out with one of the detachments in charge of the
boys. Since coming from Canton I hear he is editor of the first
Chinese newspaper started in Canton. Lum Lun Shing is in the imperial
Chinese telegraph office, Canton; Chin Poo Woo is in the United States
consulate at Canton. I had been told that Lin Kai Chow was at Canton,
but I failed to see him. Tsai Shou Kie is at Shanghai in the Great
Northern telegraph office under the control of Danes in the Chinese
employ. Tong Yuen Cham and Chu Pau Fay are in the imperial Chinese
telegraph office. The address of Tong Che Yew is 189 Nanking road,
Shanghai. Shin Kia Shue, Chieng Wen Kwei, Kong Kang Ling, and Ki Tsu
Ye are at the Kiangnan arsenal, Shanghai, studying and teaching. Tsoy
Wun-Chung, who returned to China a year or two before the educational
commission was broken up, is in the Shanghai Evening Courier office,
where he can be addressed. Woo Ki Cho is teaching English to a large
class in the polytechnic institute, Shanghai. Ching Ta Ye is said to
be in the telegraph office at Nanking. Wang Liang Tung is in the
government employ at Port Arthur in north China, Chiu Kin Kwai (who is
on the gunboat Yang Ku) and the five following are addressed at
Chefoe, north China: Chu Chin Pang, Woo King Yung, Kwang Kowk Kwong,
and Woo Yung Foo on the gun boat Tyng Tuen, and Shin Siu Chung on the
Tsi Yuen. At Tientsin are Luk Sik Quai , Wong Fung Kai, Wong Chung
Kiang Woo H. Yung, Kin Ta Ting and Lin Luen Fai. At Peking there is
but one, who came about three years ago, when the first telegraph
office was opened. He is F. T. Pond, At the Kai Ping coal mines have
been some of the young men, and others in the navy and at telegraph
stations which I did not visit. "
