Name: 1872-09-22-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1872-09-22
Paper: Chicago tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 6
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82014064/1872-09-22/ed-1/?sp=6
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Celestials.

Yesterday, at 3:15 p. m., the Chinese students arrived in this city by
the Northwestern Road, en route to New Haven, where they enter upon a
collegiate course of study. They were under the immediate' management
of Chan Laisoon, who occupies the position of Second Mandarin in the
Celestial Kingdom, and G. W, McMullen, General Passenger Agent at
Omaha, looked after their transportation. The party come direct from
Shanghai, and they have been thus far thirty-seven days on their
route. There are thirty-eight in the company, including Chan Laisoon
and family, consisting of his wife, three sons, and three
daughters. This is the second party of Chinese youths who have arrived
in this country for the purpose of acquiring a thorough education, and
the party expects to remain some ten or fifteen years, with the
exception of Chen Laisoon, who will return to China next season for
the purpose of accompanying another party o£ students to this
country. He speaks the English language with fluency, as also does his
wife, who is a fine-looking Chinese lady, about 30 years of age, with
the smallest feet imaginable, and which could easily be encased in the
boots of some of our little 6 or 7-year-old misses. One of the
peculiar features of Oriental custom, which the advancing tide of
Western civilization does not seem to have entirely eradicated, was
noticed in the case of the wife of the Mandarin, who carried her
little daughter in her arms with the infant’s feet bandaged with
pieces of elastic wood, and bound firmly to prevent their growth,
small pedal extremities being much prized among the olive-eyed
daughters of the Flowery Kingdom. The students are healthy,
fine-looking boys, ranging from 12 years upwards, and seemed to be in
the beet of spirits. Omnibuses were in waiting to transport them to
the Michigan Central depot, where they took a Pullman car, last
evening, on the way to their destination.
