Name: 1905-05-26-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1905-05-26
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 5
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: 
Title: Mrs. Eugene C. Gardner: Teacher 30 Years Ago of Chinese Boys, Who are Now Eminent, and of a Later Generation Also.
Author: 
---

MRS EUGENE C. GARDNER.

Teacher 30 Years Ago of Chinese Boys, Who are Now Eminent, and of a
Later Generation Also.

Mrs Eugene C. Gardner departed this life Friday morning just at dawn
when birds were singing around her home at the edge of the Atwater
woods. She had not been quite well for some years, and her bronchial
trouble had affected her lungs, and for several weeks she had been
failing. Mrs Gardner was born January 13,. 1833, at Wilton, N. H., the
daughter of John Hubbard, school teacher, and granddaughter of John
Hubbard, professor of philosophy and mathematics at Dartmouth
college. Harriet Bellows Hubbard came from New Ipswich, N. H. when a
child to make her home in Northampton with her uncle. Elisha Hammond,
one of those concerned in the remarkable community which founded the
village and the industries of Florence. Mr Hammond subsequently
withdrew from the community, but Harriet Hubbard grew up in that
atmosphere of liberation of mental and spiritual life and it molded
her quiet and reserved character into strength. She was educated at
the Wilbraham academy, and afterward taught school in Florence, and
was for two years principal of a boys’ high school in Northampton. She
married Eugene C. Gardner in 1858, and the next year they went to
Talmadge. O. where he was principal and the assistant in an
academy. This home in the Western Reserve they left for a year in
Ontonagon, on Lake Superior, among the Chippeways and the trappers,
but returned on the mutterings of the Sioux war. Coming back to
Florence before the end of the civil war, their two children, Florence
and George, were born there, and in 1868 the Gardners came to this
city, where they have ever since dwelt. The house in Glenwood was
built in 1872; it was then all wood land. Mrs Gardner was a lover of
the trees and glens, the birds and wild creatures who then were very
numerous around them. They said much to her of the divine life. Mr
Gardner here began as architect and author.

In 1874 her matronage of Chinese boys began, when the Chinese
educational commissioner at Hartford placed in their charge three boys
to be educated in American schools and American ways, according to the
new policy of the Chinese government. It is well known that these boys
who spent several years of their impressionable youth with Mr and Mrs
Gardner have come to be notable men in their own country. Tong Shin Ye
was acting viceroy of Pechili province when the boxer rebellion broke
out; he was lately appointed envoy to Thibet, and before he had
assumed his duties was made ambassador to Great Britain, but he has
declined this post, and will go to Thibet. Liang Yu Ho began his
service to his government as vice-consul in Korea when Tong was
consul. and is now director of the Tien-tsin and Pekin railroad. A
third, Wong Tu Chiang. is a prosperous merchant. It was much for these
men. in their boyhood, to be in the motherly care of a woman like Mrs
Gardner, with her heritage of cultivated thought and her inborn
quality of governance. That they valued this influence was shown by
the sending of four boys of the second generation, nephews of Tong
Shin Ye. to receive the same care, and they are now members of the
Gardner household.

Mrs Gardner was possessed of that strength which is born of a simple,
sincere and direct character, and develops truth in others. She had a
mental and social reserve which kept her from prominence in affairs,
and made her friendships rare and fine. She was connected with the
church of the. Unity. Her husband survives her, with their
son. G. C. Gardner, and his wife and children—three granddaughters,
Helen. Elizabeth and Anne —and her brother. John S. Hubbard of
Concord. N. H.
