Name: 1875-12-15-jackson_clarion.txt
Date: 1875-12-15
Paper: The weekly clarion.
Paperkey: jackson_clarion
Page: 1
City: 
State: MS mississippi
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83016926/1875-12-15/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

IN SEARCH OF LIGHT.

Arrival of Thirty-three more Students from China---
Three Chinese Ladies in the Party

"Westward the star of Empire takes its way," so far west, indeed, that
it has crossed the Western Ocean, and is now shedding its inspiring
rays over the far-off Orient in the land of sunny Cathay.  The
Chinese, that intensely patriotic and ???nsive people, have at last
thrown open the wide gates by the sea, and have extended a welcome to
the commerce and the learning of the world. Whether gunpowder and ball
have had anything to do with the opening of the gates alluded to, is
not to be discussed in this ???ection; suffice it to say that the
gates have been thrown open, and that the her???  of the Orient, whose
head has grown ??? with the philosophy of the centuries has, under the
influence of the "Westward star," awakened from his life of luxurious
inactivity, and with a vigor which is not of age but of breeding, has
jumped into the race of progress as a competitor against nations which
slept in the bosom of the past, long after Confucius introduced an
almost Christian code of morals into the Flowery Land.

As an instance of this awakening to the ??? of the present age, it
will hardly be necessary to refer to the fact that ??? three years
past the Chinese Government has sent ninety young men to the United
States for the purpose of being thoroughly educated in belles-letters
and the sciences. Yesterday an additional installment of thirty-three
Chinese boys landed in this city from the steamship China, en route
for Hartford, Connecticut.

Their course of study will extend over a vast range of subjects, and
occupy fifteen years. The youthful ???rophers are in charge of
Kwong-Ki-???  the official translator and joint commissioner of the
Imperial Court. He is an intelligent and highly cultured gentleman,
and converses in English with ???y and fluency. This is his second
time in Hartford. He went there last year with thirty students, and
returned to accompany his present charge. A ???  reporter visited him
at his apartments in the Palace Hotel. He expressed himself highly
pleased with American institutions, and informed our reporter that he
will remain at Hartford for some time. In response to the inquiry
whether the Chinese government will continue sending students to
America next year, he stated that he presumed so but could not take
upon himself to say what the Government would do. The boys range from
ten to fourteen years of age and have been selected by competitive
examination from the higher and middle castes in the preparatory
school in Shanghai. They are bright, intelligent boys, and are attired
in the blue flowing robes of the learned class of Orientals. Of the
thirty-three, thirty will remain here, at the expense of their
Government, and the remaining three have been sent here at the expense
of their parents, who are of the high ??? and wealthy. Ou-Ngoh-Leung,
??? Commissioner, and an excellent English and Chinese scholar,
accompanied the party to Hartford, where he will remain to assist
Professor Chun-Lau-???  the chair of Oriental literature.  The party
expect to leave for the East on Monday. Three Chinese ladies
accompanied the party, and respecting that the reporter made
inquiry. As it is a grave breach of etiquette among the Chinese to
inquire about a man's wife---possibly because he might not know which
wife was meant---the reporter made his inquiry as delicately as
possible.  The Commissioner did not appear vexed, but elevated his
eyebrows with the race of a native Parisian, and addressed himself in
the Chines language to Ou-Ngoh-Leung. To the last mentioned gentleman,
whose wives had not been inquired about, and who was smiling happily,
the reporter handed a slip from the Bulletin of that afternoon,
announcing the arrival of the party, and three "Chinese ladies." Both
gentlemen perused the slip and smiled as the reporter explained that
he wished to ascertain whether or not the ladies were
students. Kwong-Ki-Chin seemed to appreciate the point of the joke,
for he answered pleasantly, "Oh, yes; that is the Evening
Bulletin. They are not students; they are only some of my wives.
"Happy is he who hath a multitude of mothers-in-law," said
Ou-Ngoh-Leung; whereupon our reporter took his leave and went lightly
down the stairs, ???tling softly to himself.
