Name: 1875-02-26-steubenville_herald.txt
Date: 1875-02-26
Paper: Steubenville Daily Herald and News
Paperkey: steubenville_herald
Page: 4
City: steubenville
State: OH ohio
Url: 
Title: Chan Laisun's Letters.
Author: 
---

Chan Laisun's Letters.

THE CHINESE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM IN AMERICA.
CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION.
SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

My Dear Honored and Reverend Teacher, Mr. Twitchell:

It is needless to tell you the joy your most esteemed letter, dated
the 7th inst., gave me. I had just returned from a tour of inspection
of the boys in the different families in the State of Connecticut. The
general opinion of the teachers under whose care these boys are placed
is that they are bright, clever, and studious lads, and that they wish
for no better boys than these are.

I had very little hope of ever seeing you or hearing from you. You
belong to the people of the past generation, the boys who used to
dandle on your knees have become grandfathers, and it is natural to
suppose that old folks must pass away from the scene of action, as we
ourselves are considered to belong to the people of the last
generation. However, you have attained to the age usually allotted to
mankind and I hope that you will be preserved and that your example
may be of praise and joy, trusting in the arms of our Lord and
Saviour, Jesus Christ.

My hearing of you was indeed the event of the day when Mrs. M. was to
part with us, she and her husband came to bid us goodbye. Mrs. M. had
formed a liking for my son, and she naturally wanted to get acquainted
with their homes. So on the day they were to leave us for their homes,
they both made inquiry as to our fare well and the conversation
Mrs. M. mentioned excitedly, saying it was really a great ennui by the
name of the first missionary in this place. She said that her husband
told her that she could declare acquaintance with you, my venerable
teacher, as I had the fortune to meet you when you would see your
grandson. Now, sir, the story of the poor father is too deep for
words, as it involves the fate of our entire house, stretching over
the period of thirty-five years of unremitting effort to improve our
lot.

The Chinese Government, seeing the high state of prosperity in this
country, has determined to send some of its sons to learn Western
culture and bring home the benefits of such enlightenment...
