Name: 1875-11-25-cleveland_leader.txt
Date: 1875-11-25
Paper: The Cleveland Leader
Paperkey: cleveland_leader
Page: 8
City: cleveland
State: OH ohio
Url: 
Title: CHINESE LADS IN NEW ENGLAND.
Author: 
---

CHINESE LADS IN NEW ENGLAND.

Why They Came Over, and How They are Taken Care Of.
From the New York Herald.

The Yale Alumni Association held its second monthly social reunion of
the winter series at Delmonico's, Fourteenth street and Fifth avenue,
last evening, there being about one hundred and twenty-five members
present. In the absence of the President, William M. Evarts, the chair
was taken by the Rev. Dr. Adams, Vice President. After a brief
discussion of business matters, Rev. Joseph H. Twichell ('59) was
introduced to the gathering, who made the address of the evening. His
subject was "The Career of Yung Wing," the only Chinese graduate of
Yale College, and in fact, the only graduate of any college from the
Celestial Empire in this country. Yung Wing was of the class of '54,
and is the originator and curator of the Chinese educational mission
in the United States. Immediately after leaving Yale he returned to
his native land, with a view of bringing to a successful end the idea
of educating in this country a number of Chinese boys. After a
struggle of the most heroic nature, Yung Wing is now enjoying the
fruits of his efforts, as there are already in charge of the mission,
which is located at Hartford, ninety lads from that land and thirty
more are in California on their way there. For the education of these
boys the Chinese government has appropriated $1,500,000, which is
expended by the officials as circumstances demand. The boys come here
from the ages of ten up to fifteen and remain about fifteen years,
growing to manhood under the influences of American education and
principles. They are selected in China by competitive examination, and
great care is also taken as to their physical condition. Their
training is governed particularly by the capacity which each develops,
some being instructed in the law, others in medicine, the military
art, and engineering.
