Name: 1882-02-11-oakland_republican.txt
Date: 1882-02-11
Paper: The Republican.
Paperkey: oakland_republican
Page: 1
City: oakland
State: MD maryland
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn88065202/1882-02-11/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

Beheaded for Falling in Love.

Among the Chinese students who came to this country to obtain an
education were two bright boys named Chin Chin Yateh and Chin Chin
Chan, who came to New Haven, Conn. They were brothers and entered the
Hopkins grammar school, where they made good progress in preparation
for Yale College. When the students in this country were recalled by
the orders of the Chinese government last May the two brothers left
for Hartford, where they learned the telegraph business, and later on
returned to China. During their residence on Kensington street, Chan
became interested in a young lady named Sherman living near by.  This
fancy was strongly opposed on the part of Miss Sherman’s friends, but
Chan’s attentions were continued, and were only interrupted by the
departure of the young celestial.  The acquaintance was kept alive,
however, and Chan had corresponded with the lady ever since. The
principal reason for recalling the Chinese students was the fear, on
the part of the authorities, that they were becoming thoroughly
Americanized, and that they would marry American wives. They were in
this country at government expense, the object being to have them
return to their native country with power to introduce American
civilization.  Advices received state that Chan’s persistence in his
devotion to Miss Sherman coming to the knowledge of the Chinese
authorities, the young man was condemned to death, and, according to
Chinese customs, was beheaded in Hong Kong.

Another instance, showing the narrowness of the policy of the Chinese
government, is the fact that a young Chinaman now living in the family
of the late Dr. Bacon, haying become converted to Christianity, was
advised by the Chinese Commissioner at Hartford to remain in this
country, as his return to his native country would he the signal for
his death.  He therefore remains in this country and will study for
the ministry.  One of the latest labors of Dr. Bacon was in arranging
for the young man’s education.
