Name: 1882-01-19-west_jersey_pioneer.txt
Date: 1882-01-19
Paper: West-Jersey pioneer
Paperkey: west_jersey_pioneer
Page: 4
City: bridgeton
State: NJ new jersey
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83032103/1882-01-19/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

A CHINESE STUDENT'S FATE.

A special dispatch from New Haven says:—Among the Chinese students who
came to this country to obtain an education were two bright boys named
Chin Chin Yatch and Chin Chin Chan, who came to this city. They were
brothers, and entered the Hopkins Grammar School, where they made good
progress in preparation for Yale College. While in this city they
boarded in the family of Mr. Vester, No. 59 Kensington street.  When
the students in this country were recalled by the orders of the
Chinese Government last May, the two brothers left for Hartford, where
they learned the telegraph business, and later on returned to
China. During their residence on Kensington street, Chan became
interested in a young lady named Sherman living near by. This fancy
was strongly opposed on the part of Miss Sherman's friends, but Chan’s
attentions were continued, and were only interrupted by the departure
of the young Celestial.  The acquaintance was kept alive, however, and
Chan has corresponded with the lady ever since. The principal reason
for recalling these students was the fear, on the part of the
authorities, that they were becoming thoroughly Americanized, and that
they would marry American wives. They were here at Government expense,
the object being to have them return to their native country with
power to introduce American civilization. Advices received here state
that Chan’s persistence in his devotion to Miss Sherman coming to the
knowledge of the Chinese authorities, the young man was condemned to
death, and according to Chinese customs, was beheaded in Hong Kong.

Another instance, showing the narrowness of the policy of the Chinese
Government, is the fact that a young Chinaman now living in the family
of the late Dr. Bacon, having become converted to Christianity, was
advised by the Chinese Commissioner at Hartford to remain in this
country, as his return to his native country would be the signal for
his death.  He therefore remains in this country and will study for
the ministry. One of the latest labors of Dr. Bacon was in arranging
for the young man's education.
