Name: 1882-02-04-oakland_republican.txt
Date: 1882-02-04
Paper: The Republican.
Paperkey: oakland_republican
Page: 2
City: oakland
State: MD maryland
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn88065202/1882-02-04/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

Beheaded for Falling in Love.

Among the Chinese students who came to this country to obtain an
education were two bright boys named Chin Chin Yateh arid Chin Chin
Chan, who came to this city. They were brothers, and entered the
Hopkins Grammar School, where they made good progress in preparation
for Yale College. While in this city they boarded in the family of Mr.
Vester, No. 59 Kensington Street. When the students in this country
were recalled by the orders of the Chinese Government last May the two
brothers left for Hartford, where they learned the telegraph business,
and later on returned to China.  During their residence on Kensington
Street Chan became interested in a young lady named Sherman, living
near by.  This fancy was strongly opposed on the part of Miss
Sherman’s friends, but Chan’s attentions were continued, and were only
interrupted by the departure of the young Celestial. The acquaintance
was kept alive, however, and Chan has corresponded with the lady ever
since. The principal reason for recalling the Chinese students was the
fear, on the part of the authorities, that they were becoming
thoroughly Americanized, and that they would marry American wives.
They were here at Government expense, the object being to have them
return to their native country with power to introduce American
civilization. Advices received here state that Chan’s persistence in
his devotion to Miss Sherman coming to the knowledge of the Chinese
authorities, the young man was condemned to death, and, according to
Chinese customs, was beheaded in Hong Kong.

Another instance, showing the narrowness of the policy of the Chinese
Government, is the fact that a young Chinaman now living in the family
of the late Dr. Bacon, having become converted to Christianity, was
advised by the Chinese Commissioner at Hartford to remain in this
country, as his return to his native country would be the signal for
his death.  He therefore remains in this country and will study for
the ministry. One of the latest labors of Dr. Bacon was in arranging
for the young man's education,—New Haven Cor. N. Y. Times.
