Name: 1882-12-08-barbour_county_index.txt
Date: 1882-12-08
Paper: Barbour County index.
Paperkey: barbour_county_index
Page: 3
City: medicine lodge
State: KS kansas
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015080/1882-12-08/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

A Bride to Hand.

The Hartford Courant prints the following extract from a letter
received by a Hartford lady, from one of the returned Chinese
students:. "I went home to see my relations the last of March. When I
first reached home you can imagine how glad my father and relatives
were to see me looking so well and robust. They all flocked around me
and asked me many questions. My little nephew, sent by his mother,
came behind me and pulled my cue to see if it were real or false.  I
am going to tell you something which will surprise you. When I first
landed in Shanghai my father wrote to me that while I was away a great
many of his friends had offered their daughters to be engaged to me,
and that he had at last, without consulting me, selected one for me
from a mandarin. You know that it is a custom here for the parents to
contract marriages without consulting the wishes of those who are to
be united. On hearing of my engagement I tried to break it off, but
without success, as the Chinese consider an engagement of marriage the
most sacred contract. If it is once made it can never be
broken. According to the Chinese custom, the younger brother cannot
marry before the elder one. I have two younger brothers who have to
wait for me to marry before they can. Therefore I was urged very
strongly by my relatives to marry right away. I did not like to
displease my father by opposing his wishes, so I consented to be
united on the first of April.  Of course it is not a love affair, but
I shall try to do my duty. A month after my marriage I came back to
resume my studies. After studying four months ten of us have passed
the examination as midshipmen, and we are now awaiting to go on board
the training ship, which has gone to Canton for repairs.  The
navy-yard is situated on the Foochow River. The place has about four
thousand inhabitants, and has one principal street, each end resting
on the river, forming in shape a horse-shoe. We sometimes go to the
Chinese theater.  It is very mountainous here, but is everywhere
cultivated, even the top of the mountain. We often climb the mountain
and ramble among the rice fields; sometimes we go through a village
where we meet village maidens wearing ear-rings measuring four or five
inches across. Another country girl dresses her hair with so many
pins, sticks and toys that it protrudes about a foot and a half from
the head.
