Name: 1882-01-10-salt_lake_herald.txt
Date: 1882-01-10
Paper: The Salt Lake herald.
Paperkey: salt_lake_herald
Page: 7
City: salt lake city
State: UT utah
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85058130/1882-01-10/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

Love's Labor More Than Lost.

New York 9.---Times' New Haven, 8: Among the Chinese students who came
to this country to obtain an education were two bright boys named Chin
Chin Yatch and Chin Chin Chan who came to this city. They were
brothers and entered the Hopkins Grammar School, where they made good
progress in preparation for Yale College. While in this city they
boarded in the family of Mr. Vester, 51 Kensington street. When the
students in this country were recalled by the orders of the Chinese
government last May, the two brothers left for Hartford where they
learned the telegraph business and later on returned to China.  During
their residence on Kensington street, Chin became interested in a
young lady named Sherman living near by.  This fancy was strongly
opposed on the part of Miss Sherman's friends but Chin's attentions
were continued and were only interrupted by the departure of the young
Celestial. The acquaintance was kept alive, however, and Chin has
corresponded with the lady over since.  The principal reason for
recalling the Chinese students was the fear on the part of the
authorities that they were becoming thoroughly Americanized and that
they would marry American wives.  They were at government expense, the
object being to have them return to their native country with power to
introduce American civilization. Advices received here state that
Chin's persistence in his devotion to Miss Sherman coming to the
knowledge of the Chinese authorities the young man was condemned to
death, and according to Chinese customs he was beheaded in Hong
Kong. Another instance showing the narrowness of the policy of the
Chinese government is the fact that a young Chinaman now living in the
family of the late Dr. Bacon having become converted to Christianity
was advised by the Chinese commission at Hartford to remain in this
country as his return his native country would be the signal for his
death. He therefore remains in this country and will study for the
ministry. One of the latest labors of Dr Beacon was to arrange for his
education.
