Name: 1876-06-20-worcester_daily_press.txt
Date: 1876-06-20
Paper: Worcester daily press
Paperkey: worcester_daily_press
Page: 1
City: worcester
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83021219/1876-06-20/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Chinese.

Rev. Samuel C. Damon, D. D., of the Sandwich Islands addressed an
audience at the Central Church last evening on the “Chinese Question.”
Dr. Damon is a native of Holden in this county, but has for
thirty-five years resided at Honolulu, preaching, editing a paper and
superintending a seamen’s home. The reverend gentleman is now in this
country as a commissioner of the Hawaiian government to the Centennial
Exhibition. He has become familiar with the Chinese at the Sandwich
Islands, where there is already a considerable Chinese population and
immigration. Last evening the doctor made what might be called a
political, educational and missionary plea for the Chinese. He asked
the American people to think of the Chinese not as poor Coolies who
washed the linen of the people of San Francisco, but as flesh of their
flesh and blood of their blood, and their equals in ability and
business qualities. He paid no little tribute to the Chinese brain,
and illustrated by the rank taken by Chinese students now in this
country and by the success of the Chinese merchants and bankers who
hold high positions in San Francisco and other cities in this
continent and in the Old World. The susceptibility of the Chinese to
the influences of the Christian religion and modern civilization, the
speaker rated high, and believed that now, that the prayers of our
fathers, who besought God to open the gates of China to the Christian
missionary, had been answered, we should consider the Chinese problem
somewhat in the light of a grand missionary enterprise, and receive
the Chinese in a Christian spirit and bring them at once under
Christian influences, not neglecting meanwhile to labor through
missionaries and by other means on the soil of China itself. Viewing
the problem politically the speaker believed that no legislative
action of Congress or the people could stem or control the Chinese
immigration. The immigration was a movement of the age, and, as in all
ages, China had been as it were a hive from which thousands and tens
of thousands of people have gone forth to most remote parts of the
world, so in the present age the immigration has set towards this and
other countries. Speaking from personal knowledge of the Chinese in
his own island home, Dr. Damon believed the Chinese well suited to
fraternize with people of other nations and become useful, honorable
and worthy citizens, especially here in the United States. In closing,
the speaker asked with much earnestness that always the American
people receive the Chinese with true Christian charity and treat the
Chinese problem in the true Christian spirit.
