Name: 1876-02-26-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1876-02-26
Paper: New-York tribune
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 2
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1876-02-26/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE STUDENTS.

ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY OF THEM NOW RESIDENT
IN THIS COUNTRY---THE FAR-SEEING POLICY OF THE CHINESE---REASONS FOR A
FRIENDLY NATIONAL SPIRIT ON OUR PART.

[FROM THE REGULAR CORRESPONDENT OF THE TRIBUNE]

Washington, Feb, 25.---It may not be generally known that the Chinese
Government has at present in this country 120 boys, whom it is causing
to be educated for positions in its army and in its foreign
service. These boys are under the especial care of three Chinese
Commissioners who reside in this country, two of whom had themselves
been educated in American colleges. The policy of sending young men
from China to be educated in this country was determined upon only two
or three years ago, and its adoption is due to the exertions of two of
the Commissioners who are now here laboring to promote its success. Of
course they had at first to overcome very strong national prejudices,
but it is understood that the arguments which were most effective with
the Chinese authorities wore based on the conviction that, in order
for the Chinese nation to avail itself of improvements and new
inventions in military science, and to compete with Western nations in
diplomacy, its army officers and foreign ministers must be educated as
the officers and ministers of other nations are.

It is intended that the young men now in this country shall remain 15
years, and that they shall be not only trained in science and letters,
but shall devote much of their time to technical study. At the same
time, they are required to retain their knowledge of the Chinese
language, literature, and customs, so that, on their return, they
will be able to fill successfully the positions for which they have
been prepared. In this respect the Chinese Commissioners seem to have
pursued a wiser course than the Japanese authorities, for some of the
young Japanese women who are now being educated in this country seem
to have forgotten to some extent their native language and customs,
and one of them, it is said, can no longer either speak or understand
the Japanese tongue. The College at Peking, presided over by an
American, is also doing much for the education of Chinese youth,
though, on account of native prejudices, its managers are unable to
introduce the teaching of any scientific subjects, with which the
young who are educated in this country will become familiar. For
instance, it has been found impossible, thus far, to establish in the
Peking College a Chair of Medicine, although a recent letter from the
President of the College to Gen. Eaton, United States Commissioner of
Education, reports that a Chair of Medical Chemistry has been
established, and the hope is expressed that it will be possible to
maintain it.

These signs of advancement on the part of the Chinese, and the fact
that they continually turn to the United States to assist them in
learning the arts of civilization, suggest the wisdom of such a
foreign policy on the part of the United States as will cherish trade
and unrestricted intercourse with the Great Empire of the East, and
certainly ought to be fully considered when any legislation tending to
discourage Chinese immigration is proposed.
