Name: 1874-06-26-jasper_weekly_courier.txt
Date: 1874-06-26
Paper: The Jasper weekly courier
Paperkey: jasper_weekly_courier
Page: 7
City: jasper
State: IN indiana
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84023963/1874-06-26/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

Chinese Students In America.

There are now sixty Chinese students pursuing their studies in
Massachusetts and Connecticut, mainly in private families, in the
towns of Springfield, Holyoke, Greenfield, Wilbraham, Monson and
Warren, in the former State, and at Hartford, Hebron, Colebrook,
Simsbury, West Haven, Stratford and Washington, in Connecticut. A
third installment of thirty young men is expected to arrive about the
middle of July, and they will be distributed in the same towns. Of
those now here the Springfield Union says "They are all hard students,
and chiefly devote their time and strength to the acquirement of
knowledge. At the same time they are guarded against violating the
laws of health, and they exercise liberally in the gymnasium when they
can and in the open air and fields when the gymnasium is wanting. Some
excel in mathematics, and others in the languages, and all have gained
during the one or two years of their sojourn here a very clear
knowledge of English, and can use it with great facility.  They are
all fitting for our higher grades of schools, and will enter our
scientific schools and colleges as soon as they are prepared to do
so. So successful has been the experiment in America, that the Chinese
Government has already a plan projected for extending their
educational enterprises, and, in the course of another year, will send
students to England, France and Germany to be educated. All the
students are preparing for government service. Some will enter the
diplomatic, some the civil, and others the military and engineering
departments.  An effort will be made in due time to gain a place for
some of the students at West Point and Annapolis so that they may get
a complete military and naval training in connection with their other
attainments.  Commissioner Yung Wing, who has been absent in China for
several months, is to return shortly, and will probably have some
further plans for the pupils here.  Thus far their course has
reflected constant credit on their country, and has made them not
unworthy examples for our American youth."
