Name: 1874-06-13-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1874-06-13
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 9
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1874-06-13/ed-1/?sp=9
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Chinese Students.

The Springfield (Mass.) Union, in an article upon the Chinese students
in America, many of whom are in Springfield and Hartford, says: "They
are all fitting for our higher grades of schools, and will enter our
scientific schools and colleges as soon as they are prepared to do so.
Elijah Laisun. the sun of Mr. Chan Laisun, of this city, will enter
the Sheffield scientific school, and Lemuel Yung tho Troy polytechnic
school, this year. This is certainly a groat achievement for boys who
have have been in this country only two years. The American system of
instruction has met with the undivided approval of the educated
gentlemen in charge of tho students, and they express themselves
thoroughly satisfied with the progress of their proteges. So
successful, in fact, has been tho experiment in America, that the
Chinese Government already has a plan projected for extending their
educational enterprises, and, in the course of another year, will send
students to England, France, and Germany to be educated. All the
students are preparing for Government service. Some will enter the
diplomatic, some the civil, and,others the military and engineering
departments of the Government, and will be assigned to their
respective duties in accordance with their taste and fitness for one
or the other of these distinctive callings.  An effort will be made in
due time to gain a place for some of tho students at West Point and
Annapolis, so that they may get a complete military and naval training
in connection with their other attainments. Commissioner Yung Wing,
who has been absent in China for several months, is to return shortly,
and will probably have some further plane for the pupils here. Thus
far their course has reflected constant credit on their country, and
has made them not unworthy examples for our American youth."
