Name: 1874-06-26-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1874-06-26
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 4
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1874-06-26/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: The Wilbraham Academy.
Author: 
---

The Wilbraham Academy.

Few, even of the graduates of “old Wilbraham,” We opine, know that this is the pioneer
literary institution of the denomination in New
England, and, saving only an earlier institution
in Maryland, the oldest in the country. It came
from New Market. N.H., by an act of the Legislature in 1824, and is consequently in its 50th, or
golden year. It began under Rev Wilbur Fisk
with eight students in attendance, and has grown
steadily and usefully since; the highest average
of attendance for any year of its history was in
1866, when it numbered 348 students, and next
to that comes the present year with its average
of 323 scholars. Its successive principals have
been, Rev W. MeKendre Bangs, Rev John Foster,
Rev Dr David P. Patten. Rev Dr Charles
Adams, Rev Dr M. Raymond, whose term lasted
16 years, and, lastly, Rev Dr Cooke, who has
been 10 years at the head of the school. The total
invested property of the institution to be $150,000,
on which there is a debt of $20,000. This it is
proposed to lift, and, accordingly, a committee
was empowered to employ a soliciting agent with
the end of getting rid of this annual drain. The
academy has suffered some misfortunes of late
years, which have enhanced its indebtedness.
The tornado of two years ago did $3OOO worth
of damage, $2OOO of insurance was lost by the
Chicago and Boston fires, while $5OOO more went
in the recent incendiary burning of the academy
barn and stock. The examining committee appointed by the conference, of which Elder George
Whitaker of Westfield, Rev R. R. Meredith of
Springfield and Rev T. W. Bishop of Wilbraham
are members make some, important suggestions
The most radical is that a normal department be
added to the academy for the better preparation
of those, intending to teach, which will probably
be approved by the trustees. They also suggest
that future examinations at Wilbraham be arranged so
as not to conflict with those at Middletown, and report in favor of giving more
prominence to the modern languages, etc.
Aside from the growth incident to its
class, this institution has made an especial advance in scholarship
during the past year. Dr
Cooke, with a little pardonable pride, reports the
average of scholarship for the school to be 325
for the school year, or the best in a decade, the
usual return being about 300.

Commencements are pretty much alike, and,
saving the fact that the girls did noticeably well,
there is little to be said of Wednesday’s speaking
except that its average was higher, both in matter
and manner, than is usual at preparatory institutions.
Among the speakers was F. A. Smith of
Springfield, who talked about the “Progress of
Science.” The other orators from this vicinity
were Avery E. Brewer, who spoke on “The
Guiding Star,” Mary E. Brewer on “Unseen Influences,”
E. A. Daggatt on “The
Voices of Nature,” and C. F. Daggatt
on “Through Trials to Glory.” L. A. Lane
on “Self-Culture” and F. E. Stebbins on
“Liberty, the Irrepressible Conflict,” all of
Wilbraham; W. F. Holmes of North Brookfield
on “The Ultimate Triumph of Truth,” and A. S.
Snow of Ware, who “Slept and dreamed that
life was beauty, and waked and found that life
was duty.” The graduating class counts up 38,
among them being a son of Young Wing of Hartford and
the Chinese educational mission.
Wednesday afternoon, the alumni held their
reunion, whose public feature was an original poem by
Mrs Susan B. Thomas of New
Orleans, the first preceptress of the academy,
followed by the usual interview at Fisk hall, at
night, as also, by the way, the reunion of the
class of ’71.
