Name: 1880-07-29-saint_marys_beacon.txt
Date: 1880-07-29
Paper: Saint Mary's beacon.
Paperkey: saint_marys_beacon
Page: 1
City: 
State: MD maryland
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82006687/1880-07-29/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

JAPANESE AND CHINESE.---Comparing the Japanese and Chinese students
now enrolled in American schools and colleges, several marked
contrasts and likenesses are made evident. The most prominent
difference in respect to external characteristics is the greater
readiness with which the former adopt the dress and manners of the
Western world. The Japanese dresses a la European and in excellent
taste; the Chinaman still braids his cue, and wears his loose trousers
and blouse.  The Japanese is more denationalized; the Chinaman is
constantly impressed with the duty of loving and serving the land that
gave him birth and is giving him education. The latter learns the
English language with greater ease and uses it with greater facility;
the former, after a residence of even five or six years, experiences,
in the case of not a few individuals, difficulty in conducting an
ordinary conversation. Both manifest much deference to authority, and
are models of decorum and politeness. The Japanese belong relatively
to a higher caste; the majority of the Chinese students are from the
middle class of the Empire. In mental characteristics the contrasts
are less marked than in physical. The excellencies and the defects of
the the types of mind are similar. In each the memory is developed to
a degree not commonly attained by an American school boy; and the
Chinese draw forms and figures which they have once seen with
marvelous accuracy. The superior development of the memory seems to
weaken the growth of the logical faculties; and a difficulty in
conducting processes of thought of ordinary intricacy is one of the
first defects which a teacher notices in their mental
constitution. Intellectually, both are clear-sighted rather than
far-sighted; and are distinguished for exactness in thought and
statement. Considered as a whole, the Chinese make more rapid progress
in linguistic, and the Japanese in mathematical studies The former are
by temperament the most passive, the latter the more impulsive. Both
are hard students, and though seldom ranking first, maintain a
creditable stand in their classes. In respect to moral character,
also, as well as intellectual, a high degree of similarity is
obvious. Neither, as a body, is addicted to the use of liquors or
tobacco, and both are free from the vices to which American college
youth are somewhat subjected.  —Scribner's Monthly
