Name: 1880-09-10-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1880-09-10
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 7
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1880-09-10/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Young Student Declines to Return to the Flowery Kingdom.

Special Dispatch to The Chicago Tribune.

Boston, Sept 9.—The Chinese Government has abandoned all attempts to
enforce tho return to China of Yung Kwai, the Chinese student who
graduated at the High School in Springfield, and has since been
admitted to Harvard, but who was ordered home by his father for having
embraced tho Christian religion. Kwai started from Hartford with a
number of companions who had been ordered home, for San Francisco by
way of Springfield, a few evenings since. While the agent in charge
was securing through tickets Yung Kwai and a Harvard Sophomore named
Taw, who had been ordered home for tho same reason, disappeared,
taking their baggage-checks with them. They readily found friends, who
kept thorn secluded for a few days, meanwhile employing a
distinguished Boston lawyer to confer with Secretary Evarts to
ascertain their exact status as relates to their home Government.  The
reply of Mr. Evarts, giving extracts of tho treaty between our
Government and China, is just received, and sets at rest all fears of
the friends of these young men concerning their liability to be forced
back to China, and persecuted and perhaps beheaded for their
religion. The extracts are as follows: "Chinese subjects shall enjoy
all the privileges of the public educational institutions under the
control of the Government of the United States which are enjoyed in
the respective countries by the citizens or subjects of the most
favored nation. Chinese subjects in the United States shall enjoy
entire liberty of conscience, and shall be exempt from all disability
or persecution on account of their religious faith or worship in
either country.  Both Governments consequently agree to pass laws
making it a penal offense for a citizen of the United States or a
Chinese subject to take Chinese subjects either to the United States
or to any other foreign country, or for a Chinese subject or a citizen
of the United States to take citizens of the United States to China,
or to any foreign country, without their free and voluntary consent
respectively.”

The Chinese Commissioner at Hartford has already notified Kwai’s
friends that he shall not molest him: and the young man is quietly
awaiting the opening of the college term.
