Name: 1895-01-18-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1895-01-18
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 4
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: 
Title: Chinese Educational Mission and How the Work of Young Wing Was Broken Up
Author: 
---

Chinese Educational Mission and How the Work of Young Wing Was Broken Up

Many people in this region will be interested in a letter which Rev
J.W. Lane of Hadley lately sent to the Exeter (N.H.) News-Letter, in
which he says: –

I can probably tell as much about the Chinese educational mission, the
reasons and methods of its break up, and the ineffectual efforts for
its restoration, as any person in this country, save Yung Wing, its
originator. Two of the students made their home with me for seven
years. Many of the others were often here. I have the names of all the
120. I was often at Springfield, at first, and Hartford afterwards,
their headquarters. I saw them leave Hartford for China on the day of
President Garfield’s funeral, and afterwards, on that day, was at
their abandoned building in Hartford with Yung Wing, who was
interested as prime mover for their return. The petition there begun
was completed at Yale university by President Porter and Dr T. Wells
Williams, the eminent Chinese scholar, and circulated among and signed
by nearly all from the family to the university, who had done anything
in the line of teaching these 120 boys, who came in four annual
detachments of 30 each. I had the oversight of this petition thus
signed and sent it to Senator H. L. Dawes, who took it to Commissioner
of Education Eaton, who cordially indorsed it, and sent me a copy of
his writing, then to Secretary of State Frelinghuysen, who sent it to
our legation it Pekin, then in charge of Chester Holcomb, in the
absence of Mr Angell. It was presented to the Chinese government, and
Yung Wing, then in China, who had a duplicate copy of the petition,
both bound as expensively as books, in Russia leather, had several
times a promise that 50 of the boys should be returned, but our United
States anti-Chinese legislation was made the excuse for non-fulfilment
of this promise. These facts were sedulously kept from the papers at
the time, lest their knowledge should hinder our success. They have
never since been made public, mostly because ineffectual, and for the
sake of Yung Wing, who has since lived in retirement at Hartford with
his two motherless sons, who are named for the first missionaries to
China, and are now in the high school at Hartford.

The statement in a Washington dispatch of December 29, that Minister
Denby "declares that he will take occasion subsequently to call the
attention of the tsung li yamen to the record, as an inducement to
China to revive the educational system whose results have thus been
shown to have been so successful" is exceedingly interesting to us who
had so much to do in this matter, and has led me thus to write to you,
even while I doubt whether what I write may be of interest to you or
your readers. But I trust Minister Denby may succeed and help gladden
the heart of Yung Wing, whose life work has seemed so sorely
frustrated. I hope he may live to see more than fulfilled what he
wrote me on his return from China, having failed to carry his point,
on sending me, as he wrote, “a slight token of my appreciation of your
kind and unremitting effort to revive the Chinese educational
mission.” “Prejudice and evil purposes may defeat our plans for
humanity, but the plans of God are not to be circumvented. China is
not going, and cannot go back while all the rest of the world is
making progress in individual development toward a higher plane of
enlightenment and true freedom.” I have letters and documents and
copies of official indorsement to substantiate all and much more than
I have written. Had this educational mission continued as Yung Wing
planned and hoped, the present war might have been avoided or its
results been far different.
