Name: 1878-08-11-new_york_herald.txt
Date: 1878-08-11
Paper: The New York herald.
Paperkey: new_york_herald
Page: 5
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030313/1878-08-11/ed-1/?sp=5
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE EMBASSY.

Arrival of the Celestial Visitors at Hartford.

MAKING THEMSELVES AT HOME.

A Proclamation by the Six Chinese Companies.

CHICAGO AND THE CRISPINS.
Celestials as Shoemakers at Forty Cents a Day.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
Rochester, August 10, 1878.

The members of the Chinese Embassy, who are on their way to Hartford,
passed through this city at midnight last night. The train in which
they were only remained in the depot a few minutes, and there were no
demonstrations of welcome, for at that hour of the night the
inhabitants, for the most part, were asleep.

THE EMBASSY ARRIVE AT SYRACUSE, BUT DO NOT WAKE UP.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
Syracuse, August 10, 1878.

The Chinese Embassy reached the city from Buffalo at thirty-four
minutes past two o'clock this morning, on the Wagner sleeper
Sunnyside. Every Chinaman was sound asleep. The half dozen gentlemen
at the depot, anxious to catch a glimpse of the Celestial visitors,
were courteously but firmly refused permission to enter the car.

BREAKFAST AT THE DEPOT RESTAURANT AT ALBANY.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
Albany, August 10, 1878.

The distinguished Mongolians forming the Chinese Embassy arrived in
Albany at twenty minutes past six o'clock this morning, but remained
only long enough to take breakfast, proceeding on the Boston train at
a quarter to seven. They travelled in a sleeping car from Buffalo,
specially appropriated for them.  All the members of the suite took
their breakfasts in the depot restaurant, but the chief Ambassador,
who remained in his car and had breakfast served him
there. Notwithstanding the early hour a large crowd of Albanians
gathered in the depot to see them, but no city dignitaries attended,
as the shortness of their stay was anticipated. The members of the
suite who showed themselves were of the typical Chinese appearance and
were dressed in the silken robes of the Chinese dignitary.

A QUIET RECEPTION AT HARTFORD---DRIVEN TO THE CHINESE MISSION HOUSE.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
Hartford, Conn., August 10, 1878

The long looked for Celestial visitors reached this city this noon,
where they will enjoy their first rest at any length since their
departure from the Flowery Kingdom of China, many thousand miles
distant.  Their arrival was not marked by any reception of an official
character by the local antipodes, and there were very few spectators
at the depot, the time of their arrival having been known only to the
members of the Chinese Educational Commission, in this city, through
private telegrams. The Wagner palace car, Which has been their home
from Chicago to this point, now stands upon a side track near the
depot, the sole visible indication of the presence of the
distinguished Celestials. From the long residence of Chinese officials
in Hartford their quaint costumes are so familiar as scarcely to
excite comment here, but the new arrivals are rather more handsomely
and richly dressed than the average of their countrymen who have
preceded them in an official character; several of them wearing
costumes almost wholly of silk materials, of rich colors and worked in
beautiful figured designs. Their baggage filled three express wagons
and consisted of a miscellaneous assortment of trunks, boxes, rolls
and tin cases, every parcel marked in huge letters, "Chinese Embassy."
Carriages in waiting receiving the members of the Embassy as they
stepped from the train.

AT THEIR HARTFORD HOME.

They were whirled away to the building of the Chinese Educational
Commission, located in the fashionable section of the city, Asylum
Hill. At this spacious edifice accommodations were provided for the
entire party and dinner was served on the American plan, the rule of
the commission having been for years to conduct the establishment
without any especial reference to the customs of the home
country. Even the cooks and servant girls are not Chinese, but
American or Irish, and the students are encouraged to use the English
language while sojourning at the Mission House. Chun Lan Pin, Yung
Wing and their principal associates were in private consultation this
afternoon, leaving the minor attaches to amuse themselves as they
choose. Most of the latter spent their time in examining their temporary
home and its surroundings, including the flowers and plants of the
lawn and vegetable gardens, many of which were new and curious to
them. The Embassy has not yet decided when the journey to Washington
will be undertaken for the presentation of their credentials to the
government. It is probable, however, that they will remain here two or
three weeks consulting upon their future plans, and at intervals will,
if time permits, pay flying visits to some of the summer resorts in
this section.  Just what their plans are, however, is not ascertained,
as the chiefs of the Embassy have been in conference to-day, and have
declined to receive visitors. The present residence of the Embassy,
which is termed the Mission House, is a handsome double building of
Philadelphia pressed brick, with brown stone trimmings, slate roof and
a modern style of architecture. From its roof to-day floated the
Chinese standard, having the dragon and red ball emblazoned upon it.
The building is approached from the street by two walks with flower
beds on either side and the interior is divided in the centre, the
west side being allotted to the students and the east to the members
of the Educational Commission. On this list named side the lower floor
includes the office, a reception room and a small dining room, which
is at present allotted to the use of the chiefs of the Embassy. On the
other side there is a school room fitted with handsome modern
furniture, and on the wall are sheets of Chinese characters setting
forth the regulations for the daily guidance of the students in their
studies and their hours of leisure.

PLAN OF EDUCATION.

The tuition is solely in Chinese, the regulations of the Commission
requiring that every student during the earlier years of his residence
in this country shall pass two weeks in every three months at the
Mission House, under Chinese teachers, and perfect himself in all
those branches a knowledge of which will be essential when he returns
to China.  This stipulation is not enforced after the student reaches
the higher grades in English study; yet during his entire career he
maintains relations more or less close with the Mission House. Back of
the school room is the students' dining room, now assigned to the
attaches of the Embassy. The upper stories are occupied wholly by
bedrooms, which are neatly furnished. The edifice has all modern
conveniences, and with its hard finished walls and polished woodwork
is a model of neatness. The grounds are kept in admirable order, and
in general appearance the establishment might be taken for a private
residence of some gentleman of wealth rather than as one of a
semi-public character.

INTERVIEW WITH A MEMBER OF THE DIPLOMATIC CORPS---A GENERAL VIEW OF THE
PURPOSES OF THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT.

San Francisco, August 3,1878.

The Chinese Embassy leave this morning for the Atlantic
seaboard. Seven of the diplomatic corps remain here and twenty go
forward to Hartford, attended by four masculine domestics.

The consulate which left here comprises a Consul General, a Consul, a
Consul Secretaire and four assistants, the English speaking member of
which is Sit Ming Cook, a smart, very intelligent young man of about
twenty-six or more, who was educated in New Bedford some years ago.

Your correspondent was fortunate in being able to induce one of the
members of the Embassy to grant him an interview, the details of which
will no doubt prove interesting to the readers of the Herald.

THE BUSINESS OF THE EMBASSY.

"Have you any particular object to accomplish at be present time?"

"No. We should have come before this, two years ago; but it was not
convenient, and we came when we were ready."

"What is the special instruction of the Embassy?"

"Nothing of a special character. We Chinese are naturally slow, and
are particular about confining ourselves to our own business. This
Embassy has come here, and some are going to other countries, like any
other legation, only to look after the interests of our nation and the
rights of our citizens. A consul, in my opinion, is but a commercial
agent of the government and no more. We have treaties with this
country, and all we ask is to have those treaties honestly observed."

"You understand, I presume, the agitation created by the great
increase of Chinese emigrants to this coast and the movement of the
working classes to restrict that emigration?"

"Yes. We know it fully, but we see nothing wrong in our countrymen
coming here. Americans can go to China, go where they please---as
provided in the treaty, engage in what they please. If the Chinese
come here, it is an evidence that they think your country better than
ours, and in which they can make more money than at home. You should
not object to that compliment."

"Under the circumstances complained of here your statement is
facetious."

"It is a fact, nevertheless, that by that treaty we have a right to
come, and our people do come and will continue to come as before."

"Suppose that our Congress should wish to change what is known as the
Burlingame Treaty, in order to check this emigration from your country
and limit it in numbers, would the Chinese government meet such a
proposition in a cordial spirit?"

"The American nation claim to be of a higher civilisation than we are,
and we admit that, and so we look to this nation for a good example in
the observance of treaties. We are making no provision for their
violation of this treaty, which they themselves sought and were glad
to obtain."

"Still, should Congress demand the abrogation of that treaty for the
protection of its own laboring population against the labor of your
countrymen, with whom they cannot compete, what would your government
do?"

"Nothing."

"If Congress should pass a law, as it is now proposed, to forbid any
steamer or vessel of any character to bring more than say ten Chinese
laborers at one time, and that that law was enforced---as it assuredly
would be---would your government not take some action against the
Americans in China?"

"I think not, just at once, for the United States would have to
satisfy the English government at first, as the emigration departs
from an English colony and not in a sense from China."

Here the gentleman enjoyed a pleasant smile, as if he thought that he
had given the first utterance to that point in the Chinese
controversy, and I thought it would be lacking in courtesy to rob him
of the enjoyment, and so let it pass.

"You, then, have nothing definite to say as to the result if such
action as I have intimated may be adopted at an early day."

"I think it would be unpleasant for Americans in China. With a treaty
violated by the American government there could not well exist
friendly relations between the citizens of the two countries, as would
be the case between any other nations."

"Thee ultimate of that would doubtless be war."

"Perhaps. We cannot foresee the future, but at present we have no fears
of it."

Seeing that there was nothing further to be gained in that direction I
engaged him in a desultory conversation on matters in general
connected with the embassy, of which the following is an epitome:

THE AMBASSADOR'S GENERAL MISSION.

His Excellency Chun Lan Pin's mission at the present time is to
establish consulates in San Francisco, Havana, Cuba and Lima, Peru, in
addition to the legation at Washington. The consulate at San Francisco
will enter upon its duties immediately after the Embassy is recognized
by this government. After the legation is established His Excellency,
accompanied by the Consul General and Consul for Cuba, with an
interpreter, will repair to Madrid, and, after recognition by the
Spanish government, they will return to New York, when the entire
consulate will leave for Havana. During His Excellency's absence the
Peruvian consulate will remain in Hartford. He will not accompany the
consulate to Cuba, but goes to Peru probably in the beginning of 1879.
He will remain in Washington during the next session of Congress. I
have heard since the Embassy was here that the Ambassador is the first
dignitary from China who ever had rank enough to entitle him to
receipt for that extra $600,000 not consumed in the payment of
indemnity, but I am informed by one who claims to know that His
Excellency is not going to ask for it and the Chinese government is
too proud to take it, even if pressed upon to accept it.

THE CONSULATE HERE.

A building has not yet been obtained, but there are plenty offered for
the use of the consulate.  There is no objection to Chinese gold. The
Consul General brought his wife, the only lady with the Embassy. Their
apartments will be elegantly furnished.  The "Melican man" has only
seen the Chinaman as plodder, now they are to become acquainted with
him as a diplomat, and I are afraid these consuls are going to grandly
diminish "brother Kearney's" stock in trade. One of them told me that
they meant to use every influence they could to clean up our
Chinatown, and see that our municipal authorities did their duty
also. It is a disgrace to the latter that they do not make the
contractor for cleaning our streets do his duly there. The Chinese pay
their taxes and licenses the same as all other inhabitants. Yet they
are forced to sweep and keep clean the streets in their own portion of
the city, for which they have paid like the white citizens. The Consul
tells me that they will seek to aid in the suppression of gambling and
prostitution, which are notoriously offensive---if the police will do
their duty. At the present time it is well known that many of the
police are in the pay of both classes, and are blind to the violation
of law except in cases where the crimes cannot be concealed.

It is commonly believed---and seemingly true--- that there are
dangerous secret societies among them in which their self-constituted
tribunals bear charges, judge and execute offensive persons. This work
they will labor to destroy---if they have evidence of its
existence. The American consulates in China have the authority of law
for dealing with their countrymen; but the Chinese consuls here wish
no such authority.  Whatever they may try to do and how they may
succeed are matters of the future; at all events they will do
something, and the Chinese element will thereby lose, in some degree,
its slight offensiveness, though that very fast may lead to render
their presence more hateful to the working classes.  A legion of bad,
low, degraded Chinamen is excellent material for the demagogue; law
abiding, cleanly, intelligent Chinese workman are the evils the white
workingmen have to dread.

The Embassy will at an early day remonstrate against the action of the
State legislature by which the Chinamen are taxed at $75,000 per annum
for educational purposes, by the poll tax, and yet they are denied the
benefits of our free schools.

While they disclaim against any intention of aggressiveness it is not
difficult to see that before long John Chinaman is going to talk out
for his rights.  Hitherto no one had authority to speak, and the
general impression has been that the imperial government was perfectly
indifferent about the Chinese here and cared nothing about the bad
treatment to which that have at times been subjected.  During the
riots of last summer here and elsewhere in the State a very large
amount of their properly was destroyed, and of this a full statement
has been preserved and the proper measures taken to render legal those
claims when the time comes to bring action before the courts. The
Embassy may be disposed to take no notice of the past wrongs, but
there are attorneys ready enough to take up such cases on their own
account.

THEIR STAY IN THE CITY.

Such a number of persons in their strange costumes could not fail to
attract attention at the Palace Hotel; but, apart from that, they were
like ordinary guests. There are no great beauties among them, yet they
have generally intellectual faces, are quiet in manners and very
orderly in what they do. They have not yet got into the San Francisco
general habit of "smiling." They are great tea drinkers; they go it
the first thing in the morning, have it at breakfast, lunch, dinner
and before retiring to bed. About the first thing I saw in the palace
after their arrival was one of the attaches of the hotel carrying to
His Excellency four saucers of dry tea, and, of course they choose
black---Oolong.

They had a long table, set up for eighteen, in one of the parlors; the
others dined at the general table.  There were no "chop sticks" called
into use, and they bandied the silver cutlery as well as the most
dainty Parisian. They showed but little difference in tastes and
capacity to any other mortals.  His Excellency always entered the
dining room first, took the head of the table, with the Consul General
on his right. When be got through with his repast and rose to leave
the entire rose while he passed out. A critical genius remarked that
he thought their style of "returning thanks" was a sensible change
from "make us thankful for what we are about to receive." There is
logic in the better sentiment flowing from a satisfied appetite.

Only a very few of them visited the billiard room and enjoyed the cue,
but they were no patrons of the bar. Their greatest indulgence was the
carriage, and on that they are profuse. It may be that their knowledge
of the bad feeling of many citizens against them suggested as little
street promenade as possible, and they were seldom seen, except in
close carriages, after their arrival experience.

THEIR VISITORS.

Before their arrival it was intended by Colonel Bee, as the
representative man of that friendly class, that their stay here would
have been something like a series of demonstrations and general
visiting, but whether from the love of directing things himself on the
part of one of the party, or from their disgust at their reception was
not affirmed---they avoided the question. No municipal official
called. Had the Governor been in the city the Ambassador would have
called and paid his respects. As it was he sent his card to
Sacramento, but up to the moment of leaving their hotel no
acknowledgment had been received. The Governor, however, may see his
Excellency while passing through Sacramento; it is to be hoped he
will, as the representative of a nation in amity with our own it is
great folly to allow prejudice to interfere with a common duty.

Major General McDowell;l and Commodore Rogers both called
unofficially. General Cody, postmaster, and Colonel Sharman also
called but did not see them.  Senators Dennis, of Maryland; Norwood,
of Georgia; Sharon, Nevada; ex-Senator Cole, Associate Justice Field,
ex-Minister Lowe, all the Consular corps, and Mr. Demur, ex-Secretary
of the Bureau of Statistics, Washington, D. C., also called upon
them. They seem to have been much gratified with the visit of those
gentlemen and speak of any courtesies extended to them in a spirit of
the fullest appreciation.

They do not seem to have seen much of the city, having been almost
constantly occupied with business, looking after their luggage,
freight and doing a large amount of correspondence. They are looking
forward to their visit to New York with great interest. They expect to
see the wonders of the world there, and their friends lead them to
look for another kind of reception to that which they received
here. Mr. William A. Strong, general agent of the Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern Railroad, has the entire charge of them and their
business between this and Hartford. He speaks of them as good business
men, careful and economical, but not mean.

Of course their stay abroad will be regulated by circumstances, but
they have left home with the expectation of being absent three
years. It is the first time that China has taken this course, and they
are naturally anxious about results. It is safe to calculate that
other batches of diplomats and embassies will shortly follow.

ABOUT THEIR ARRIVAL.

I hare no wish to recur to anything that is disagreeable, but in the
brevity of a telegram I could not be as explicit as the subject
demanded, and, as my special to the Herald has been widely copied and
commented on, I think a paragraph now not amiss.

The Pacific Mail Company's chief men did their duty well and
freely. The General Superintendent, Martin Bulger, is an exceedingly
cool man, brave and courageous where there is trouble. I saw him
actively controlling everybody with wagons and carriages to keep out
of the way of the Embassy, and by his orders no one was permitted
within the company's gates, save those whose business it was to be
there. As soon as the first carriages got out of the gates no further
control could be exercised but that of the police, and there were few
of these. I asked an officer why there were so few there and he said
the Tokio was not expected and the force to any great extent did not
report at Headquarters for duty till noon, and the Captain sent all
that he had then at his disposition. That was no doubt true, but the
fact that on the shortest notice they get all they want when they need
them badly seems, to indicate that no preparations had been made for
the protection of the Embassy at all. The steamer was signalled at
six, got to the wharf at seven, and the entrance of the Embassy into
their carriages was not before eleven o'clock.

There never is a public announcement of any rowdyism that is coining
off, but on such an occasion it was in no way wrong to provide for its
suppression.

The neighborhood of a steamboat wharf has a population of its own, and
Brannan street is no exception to groggeries and cheap eating
houses. The crowd on that occasion were just such persons as might be
expected there. They did not go with the view of making trouble, but
once there all the elements needed for a row was on the spot and ready
for use. It needed only a beginning. The Embassy evidently expected to
be saluted. Their carriages were open. The Ambassador was alone in his
on account of his rank, and two occupants only in every carriage
followed, for freedom of recognition, if such had been called for, as
is usually the case when distinguished persons are passing through the
public streets of a city.

The attempt that was made to insult them was quickly stopped, but not
till a number of dirty, ill-mannered faces were worse disfigured by
great outstretched mouths uttering groans and projecting their heads
after the fashion of snarling dogs ready to bite. I was perfectly
bewildered by the outburst of noise.  I looked round and saw the
officer in citizen's dress jerk out his club and with a sharp, ringing
voice made them desist. Had some blockhead just taken it into his head
to do something, what a nice ending there would have been!

I am no China worshiper, and in my profession am usually so
interested as to leave but little room for outside thinking. I had not
thought of what attention should be shown to the Embassy and was
making for a carriage hurriedly. I immediately stepped back,
approached nearer the Ambassador's carriage, uncovered my head and
bowed as respectfully as I knew how, and wished that my eyes could
have told him how much I venerated an aged gentleman submitted to so
gross an insult. Colonel Bee was near to me; he did the same, and I
saw a hat lifted further away, and going forward saw it was Horace
D. Dann, formerly in the consulate service of the government in Japan,
and beside him the Japanese Consul in this city.  These four hats were
lifted probably more from the fact of the insult than any preceding
intention. Mine was, I knew. I saw no other respect shown.

A PROCLAMATION BY THE SIX CHINESE COMPANIES---
A REPLY TO THE SAND LOT ORATORS---
THE COMPANIES NOT TRADERS IN THE LABORS OF THEIR COUNTRYMEN.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
San Francisco, Cal., August 10, 1878.

The Chinese Six Companies have hitherto treated with silence the
statements of the sand lot orators and a portion of the press charging
them with being engaged in the coolie trade and being contractors for
Chinese labor, but, appreciating Eastern opinions as telegraphed here
during the present week, have resolved to come before the public with
the following proclamation, and which has been placed in the hands of
your correspondent exclusively:---

TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.

We deem it to be but just to the American people and to the press of
the Eastern States, who have treated us with such fairness, to make
this declaration, that the Six Chinese Companies are only benevolent
associations; that their functions are exactly those of scores of like
organizations throughout this free country. We have never, directly or
indirectly, as charged at the public meetings recently held in the
city of Boston, brought or caused to be brought one of our countrymen
to this country under or by any contract in written, oral or
otherwise, as slave, coolie, laborer or any capacity, under bond,
contract or agreement, understanding, influence or advance of
money. We have never contracted, let or hired one or any of our people
to labor here or in any capacity whatever; have never had, demanded,
required or received one dollar of wages or the earnings of our people
here, directly or indirectly, as a company or companies, nor as
individual interests, separately or collectively. The testimony of
leading citizens given before a Congressional Commission fully
substantiated the foregoing declarations.

Respectfully signed by the presidents of the Six Chinese
Companies---Yong Wo Ning, Yung Kong Chow, Yin Wo, Sam Yup, Hop Wo.
San Francisco, Cal., August 10, 1878.

WHAT THE CHINESE COMPANIES HAVE OFFERED TO THE SHOE MANUFACTURERS OF CHICAGO---
THE CELESTIALS COMPETING WITH THE CHICAGO CRISPINS.

[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.}
Chicago, August 10, 1878.

The boot and shoe manufacturers met at the Tramont House to-day. The
following ten firms---all the manufacturers in the city---were
represented:---Greenfelder, Rosenthal, & Co.; M.D. Wells & Co.,
Doggett, Basset & Hill; C.H. Fargo & Co., G.W. Webber & Co.,
C.M. Henderson & Co., Crowfoot, Stelle & Cass; Philip Goldman, George
L. Congdon and Phelps, Dodge & Palmer.  The meeting was devoted to the
consideration of a proposition from the Six Consolidated Chinese
Importing Companies of California to furnish 1,500 Chinamen, half
practical shoemakers and half green hands, for three years at
seventy-five cents a day per man. The manufacturers agreed that they
would make no further concessions to the strikers. There are about
eight hundred men in the strike. They demand $12 per week. The
manufacturers offer to pay $10.50, which they say is the most they can
afford. Further than this, they have offered no conciliation to the
men, but, on the contrary, declare that they will take no steps to
pacify them. They are determined that the striking hands shall come
back to work at the figures named, and that, too, by the first of next
work, or they can go without employment. Should the Crispins hold out,
as they say they will, to December, there is no doubt that that their
places will be filled by Chinese from the California companies. The
members of the trade, at the meeting this afternoon, were all agreed
that the scheme was a good one, but differ in opinion as in the price
to be paid the Celestial hands.  Some of them thought that forty
cents a day was enough, and none were willing to pay more than
fifty. The manufacturers made a proposition to the agent to employ
1,500 of the Chinese, provided they could be obtained at convict labor
rates. The plan is for the importing companies simply to rent the
laborers, so to speak, to the manufacturers, and the manufacturers,
instead of paying the hands, turn in the money to the
corporation. Another meeting will be held in a few days for definite
action in the matter.

A REALIZING SENSE.

The threatened invasion of Chinese cheap labor, as a reality, has
created a profound sensation among the laboring classes. They never
realized before the possibility of this element entering into the
Chicago labor questions. The most violent of the socialists, of all
trades, defy the manufacturers to bring them on and there will be
bloodshed if it is done. The socialists will settle the controversy
once and for all with the musket. They say the militia and police
cannot stand a moment before the exasperated laborers who will rally
around the armed "Labr und Wehr Verein."

CELESTIAL DINING.

EATING ROAST PIG WITH BIRD'S NEST SAUCE---MR. TOM LEE'S BANQUET---
MONGOLIAN MUSIC ENLIVENS THE FEAST.

One of the most unique dinners ever given in New York city was spread
yesterday afternoon in the front parlor of a house in Mott street,
almost facing the Church of the Transfiguration. It was a dinner given
to Counsellor Ed. K. Price by the Chinese colony that owes allegiance
to Mr. Tom Lee, the accredited New York agent of the Six Companies in
San Francisco. The lawyer in question, having defended successfully a
number of cases involving Chinese interests, Mr. Tom Lee and his
friends devised the banquet as a gentle tribute of respect and
esteem. It was fixed for four o'clock, and at that hour Mr. Price,
Colonel G.H. Hart and the Herald reporter, following a guide, ascended
the stoop of the Mott street house and were met by Tom Lee himself.
He politely ushered his guests into an prettily furnished room, an
whose walls certain Celestial pictures and heathenish devices like
"Remember me" and "Home, Sweet Home," seemed to softly blend, and
began the ceremonies by unlocking a mysterious bureau with one of a
lot of keys attached to a foot of chain, and producing a very good
article of cigar. In the centre of the room was a table with covers
laid for eight. The dim light glistened upon snowy napkins and a
silver service that would not have disgraced a petit stuper on Murray
Hill. Between the ornamental dishes of cake and fruit were fragrant
bouquets, with the aroma of the tuberose prominent, whose sweet
perfume filled the apartment. While Tom Lee gave some necessary
orders, olive-skinned men passed through the hall, rattling peculiarly
upon the floor with their thick-soled shoes, took a hurried aquiline
look at the table, and then disappeared.

PREPARATIONS.

Just as the cigars were ignited a door opened and two pretty girls, of
the pure Circassian type, and with the regular Sixth ward "bang" as to
their front hair, entered. They proceeded at once to the manufacture
of the tea and the slicing of the bread. After all seemed to be ready
there was a pause, which was dexterously filled by Mr. Tom Lee and
Mr. Chink-Ko, in explaining the zodiacal mysteries of a fan, handed
one of the visitors. Then came a young Chinese servant, holding in his
hand a huge dish on which lay a sucking pig split down the belly and
surrounded by herbs.  This was placed upon the table after it great
deal of palaver, and following it came other servants, in full Chinese
dress, with sauces, salads, bowls of stewed chicken, fruit and other
accessories of the dinner. The young women having announced the tea
ready, Tom Lee made a sign and the company sat down. As ranged about
the table they were as follows: Mr. Price, Colonel Hart, the HERALD
man, Ah George, Chink-ki, Tom Lee, Domingo (the cook) and Ah Wong. Tom
Lee silently motioned again and the young girls closed the blinds,
raised the curtains and lit the gas.

THE DINNER.

First came the tea, headed about in pretty bric-a-brac
cups that would drive collector wild with the
frenzy of possession. As the reporter made a motion
foe the sugar Ah George shook his head and said,
"Belly much better no sugar." It was so. Then the
pig was carved and passed about, and after it the other
dishes, the Chinese never speaking save when addressed
and maintaining a dignified decorum that was
almost palatial. The best idea of the dinner will be
gathered from the following bill of fare, written by the
reporter from individual memory and after investigation:---

******************************************************************************
*                                 Tea.                                       *
*                  Sucking pig with bird's nest sauce.                       *
*                     Roast chicken, with ??? ?????.                         *
*                Dried oysters.  Fish.  Imported mushrooms,                  *
*                     eaten with an pungent sauce.                           *
*                  More fish and candied dwarf lemons.                       *
*                          Linaze (pinnia)????                               *
*                           Fricasseed chicken.                              *
*                             Potted pigeon.                                 *
*                                 Duck.                                      *
*                         Champagne.  Rice brandy.                           *
*                                 Cigars.                                    *
******************************************************************************

THE PERPETUAL TEA.

With this unexaggerated repast, and the reporter is free to admit that
he dived furtively into dishes that he knew not of and does not now,
tea was served constantly by the fair handmaidens, who performed
their labors silently as if they were automats. By pure force of habit
the guests reached for the sugar when the tiny cups were handed
around, and in each instance Ah George shook his head and remarked,
"No sugar---beally bad." It became evident that the sugar was placed
upon the cloth simply as an ornamental compliment to our effete
civilization. After the most substantial part of the spread had been
amply discussed the plates were swiftly removed, other plates and
glasses were furnished and epergnen loaded with fruit and cake were
brought on. Remember that all this was Confucian hospitality tendered
by representatives of the race that Dennis Kearney would like to stamp
out. Then there was mare tea and preserves in flowered bowls, each
bowl having a different pattern.

MUSIC.

When it was all over the cloth was removed, and on the table more
diminutive cups of tea were served by the white-armed Hebes. Being
asked favor the company with some music Tom Lee, who was dressed in
black broadcloth and had worn originally a high silk hat that
partially hid his sacred queue, coiled in a shining line about his
head, took down an instrument like a banjo, with a resounding surface
of wood.  Phonetically, this is called "Good Kun." Out of politeness
it would be proper to call it "good tune," but it can't be done.  Tom
Lee played upon it with a piece of wood, which he cut himself, holding
it lightly between the thumb and forefinger of his right hand, and
succeeded in evolving a variety of discordant sounds that were
listened to by the Celestials with that excited degree of appreciation
which showed plainly that they considered it heavenly music. There was
only one air appreciated by the guests---a rapid measure, with a sad,
minor key cadence, of the kind that obtains in Scotch
music. Subsequently Tom Lee informed the HERALD reporter that it was a
love song about a young maiden who grieved and went on just as heathen
young maidens do under similar circumstances. Being applauded Tom Lee
tried another instrument---a pipe-like construction whose bowl was
covered with snake skin. There was a violin bow with the threads run
between the two strings and fastened at either end of the stick. The
performance was like that of a bagpipe, by no means pleasant, and
attracting a crowd outside. The guests did not applaud, but took
another cup of tea and quietly withdrew.
