Name: 1878-08-07-wheeling_intelligencer.txt
Date: 1878-08-07
Paper: The Wheeling daily intelligencer
Paperkey: wheeling_intelligencer
Page: 3
City: wheeling
State: WV west virginia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84026844/1878-08-07/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

aA MAN OF DEEP LEARNING.

Being a graduate of the Han Lin College, of the highest class, and he
is a man of extensive travel and observation as well. In 1872 be
visited this country as Chief Commissioner in charge of the Chinese
students, sent to be educated in the Connecticut College, and he
subsequently visited England and Spain on similar missions. After
locating the several consulates appointed for the United States, he
will visit Spain and procure the recognition of a Consul for Cuba, and
thence proceed to Peru for a similar purpose, He will then return to
Washington and take up his abode as resident Minister. The legation
will include between twenty and thirty persons. The Vice Minister at
Washington will be Yang Wing, who is now at Hartford, Conn., awaiting
the arrival of his superior. Yang Wing graduated at Yale College with
high scholastic and literary honors, receiving the degree of LL.D.
Yek Yuan Taun, Consul General, Sit Ming Cook, Consul for San
Francisco, and many others of their number are highly educated, and
can speak English as fluently as their mother tongue. Aside from the
dignitaries, the Embassy is composed of men of a superior class, in
intelligence, appearance and social standing, to the Chinamen
ordinarily seen in this country, not excepting the merchants of this
city. After the uproar of the reception had subsided he was again
interviewed by reporters and questioned, through Ming Cook, to a
considerable extent, which would be too long for repetition at
present. He intends leaving in about a week for the East, but the day
is not decided upon. Our last interview was in questioning His
Excellency in rather a rigid manner, in which we derived considerable
information in regard to Coolie emigration, etc.

Many of our citizens opposed to Kearneyisrn gave the illustrious
visitor, the Minister Plenipotentiary, and his subordinates, a hearty
welcome to our shores.  T. M. G.
