Name: 1881-08-02-daily_intelligencer.txt
Date: 1881-08-02
Paper: The daily intelligencer
Paperkey: daily_intelligencer
Page: 2
City: seattle
State: WA washington
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83045610/1881-08-02/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: Why the Chinese Students were Recalled.
Author: 
---

Why the Chinese Students were Recalled.

BOSTON, July 30.—The Journal publishes the reason which actuated the
Chinese Government in recalling its young men who were students at
Hartford. It seems that the Emperor a year ago dispatched a mandarin
of high rank to Hartford to inquire into the workings of the
educational commission. This individual had never been outside the
limits of his native land and possessed only book knowledge of foreign
customs. On reaching Hartford he was horrified at finding that the
wards of his nation had become Americanized to an alarming decree,
some being so far acclaimed as to have parted with their pig
tails. The shock was too great for the nerves of the conservative
functionary. Yung Wing, the able head of the commission, failed in his
efforts to clear away the prejudice of his visitor, who declared that
the effect of their sojourn was to alienate the boys from their
country and its customs; to undermine the most sacred traditional
principles of the Government and society, and to implant and foster
seditious ideas of social if not civil and religious discords among
their own people. The whole influence and tendency of the mission was
pernicious and dangerous in the extreme. He therefore recommended
immediate abandonment of the enterprise and recall of all the
students, and this course has been adopted by the home Government. It
is understood that the Chinese Government was very largely influenced
by the fact that the colleges and scientific schools of America do not
furnish practical industrial instruction, and was also misled by its
special Envoy's declaring the machinery and manufacturing products in
the great mills inferior. Students will therefore be sent to France
and Germany. Chinese official residents in this country are trying to
convince their Government that the statements about the inferiority of
our machinery and products are false.
