Name: 1881-07-31-daily_leader.txt
Date: 1881-07-31
Paper: The Cheyenne daily leader
Paperkey: daily_leader
Page: 1
City: cheyenne
State: WY wyoming
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022149/1881-07-31/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: THE TRUE REASON.
Author: 
---

THE TRUE REASON.

Why the Chinese Students Were Ordered Home.

Chicago, July. 30.—The Journal publishes the reasons which actuated
the Chinese government in recalling its young men who are students at
Hartford. It seems that a year ago the emperor despatched a mandarin
of high rank to Hartford to inquire into the workings of the
educational commission.  This individual had never been outside of his
native land, and possessed only book knowledge of foreign
countries. On reaching Hartford he was horrified at finding that the
wards of his nation had become Americanized to an alarming degree,
some being so acclimated as to have parted with their pigtails. The
shock was too great for the nerves of the conservative functionary.
Yung Wing, the able head of the commission, failed in his efforts to
clear away the prejudices of his visitor, who declared the effect of
the sojourn was to alienate the boys from their country and its
customs, to undermine the most sacred national principles of the
government and socially to implant and foster seditions ideas which
would become the germs of social if not civil and religious trouble
among his own people. The whole influence and tendency of the
commission was pernicious and dangerous is the extreme. He, therefore,
recommended the immediate abandonment of the enterprise and the recall
of all the students and this course has been adopted by the home
government. It is understood that the Chinese government was very
largely influenced by the fact that the colleges and scientific
schools in America do not furnish practical industrial education, and
was also misled by the special envoy declaring that the machinery and
manufacturing products in the great mills of the country inferior. The
students, therefore, should be sent to France and Germany. The Chinese
officials, resident In this country, are trying to convince their
government that the statements about the inferiority of our machinery
and products are unfounded.
