Name: 1881-08-14-daily_globe.txt
Date: 1881-08-14
Paper: Daily globe
Paperkey: daily_globe
Page: 6
City: saint paul
State: MN minnesota
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83025287/1881-08-14/ed-1/?sp=6
Title: 
Author: 
---

Chinese Students Going Home.
[Boston Post.]

On Monday next a party of about 100 Chinese students, from Hartford
and other places, leave this city for their homes in the Flowery
kingdom. The Chinese government, through its representatives in this
country, yesterday closed a contract with Mr Wm. A. Cromwell, of the
Lake Shore Michigan Southern road, to transport the youthful
celestials to the Pacific coast, from whence they will sail by the
Pacific mail steamer. Mr. Cromwell will act as escort for the party,
and will accompany it as far as Chicago. Mr.  W. H. Jenny, New England
passenger agent of the Chicago, Rock Island Pacific road, and
Mr. Geo. B. Morton, New England traveling agent of the Boston Albany
road, will go with the party a portion of the way across the
continent.  The rail route will be over the Boston & Albany, New York
Central, Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific and Union Pacific roads.  A Post reporter happened into Mr.
Jenny's office there yesterday and there found Mr. Cromwell diligently
studying an old Chinese-English grammar and conversation book,
preparing himself for the duties of the journey, In answer to the
Post's questioning, Mr. Cromwell said he didn't know why the Chinese
students were so suddenly recalled, but he did not think, as
Gen. Donahoe did, that the comet had anything to do with it. The
withdrawal of the students is a Chinese puzzle to many people usually
well informed in eastern matters. The generally accepted solution is
that the government has become dissatisfied with the experiment, and
wishes to examine the boys at home to see what the character and
extent of their studies have been. They have nothing to say about the
matter at the Chinese legation further than an order has come, that it
is comprehensive, and that it is not intended to send any of the
students to European countries. The summons was apparently a surprise
to the Chinese here, and this fact maybe taken as an indication of the
ascendancy of new and hostile influences at court.
