Name: 1881-08-28-daily_leader-2.txt
Date: 1881-08-28
Paper: The Cheyenne daily leader
Paperkey: daily_leader
Page: 2
City: cheyenne
State: WY wyoming
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022149/1881-08-28/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

Chinese Students Again.

In connection with the passage of the second party of homeward bound
Chinese students recorded in yesterday’s issue, the Leader republishes
the following to the New York Herald from a special correspondent:

Tientsin, China, July 13,1881.

You in America are already informed of the breaking up of the Chinese
educational mission. It is a great pity to discontinue so useful and
promising a work.

The people in America are familiar with the circumstances of its
establishment through the influence and under the auspices of the
educated Chinaman, Yung Wing, who was graduated at Harvard college and
married an American wife. He induced the Chinese government to
appropriate about $2,000,000 from the customs revenue for sending some
boys to America to be educated in military and naval science and in
other scientific branches. The mission was established In 1872 and in
three years thereafter 120 boys were at school In America.

Ever since that we have always heard that these boys were doing well
in the schools and colleges of America, as regards both scholarship
and conduct, so that the government was satisfied and had not thought
of interfering with the mission or of discontinuing it. But when the
present commissioner, Woo Kia Shin, went to America, about a year and
a half ago, be began to send back adverse reports. He is a scholar of
high rank in China, having the title Han Liu, which is among the most
important literary degrees. But he seems to belong to the conservative
class of Chinamen and to look with disfavor upon the social customs
and educational methods of America.

All his reports were of a disparaging and fault-finding character, and
be continued to assert that it was quite impossible to improve
matters, so that he recommended its abolishment.

At the beginning of the present year, the minister at Washington, Chin
Lan Pin, was instructed to investigate the matter and report to the
government.  In this report he says: —"Mr. Woo says, 'Although the
boys have not learned all the useful arts and sciences, they have
already adopted all the bad customs' [of America]. From what Mr. Woo
says I judge that this mission will be of more harm than advantage to
the Chinese government. There is no need for the boys to stay longer,
for they have such beginnings of knowledge that on their return to
China they can perfect themselves. I judge that the mission should be
abolished immediately."
