Name: 1881-08-11-daily_leader.txt
Date: 1881-08-11
Paper: The Cheyenne daily leader
Paperkey: daily_leader
Page: 1
City: cheyenne
State: WY wyoming
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022149/1881-08-11/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: CHINESE MINISTERS.
Author: 
---

CHINESE MINISTERS.

Some Important Points Bearing on American-Chinese Affairs.

Chicago, Aug. 10.—The Inter-Ocean's Washington special says: The new
Chinese minister, who is expected to arrive in November, to succeed
Chin Lan Pin, is Ching Tuan Yu, about 55 years of age, who has been in
the government service many yeas, has been of late government
inspector of arsenals, and more recently collector of customs at Tien
Tsin. It is understood that Yung Wing’s place as assistant envoy
extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary will not be continued in
the future, and Minister Ching Tsan Yu will bring with him a full
complement of attaches for consulates in Cuba, Peru and Spain to
replace those who will return. Some officials will be retained for a
term of three years, for which the Chinese government will make its
civil appointments, but most of them will return to China. Of the
attaches here it is understood at the legation that Ho Shen Chee and
Yen Tae Che will stay as part of the personnelle of the new embassy.
Tsu Soon Kee, who recently returned to China, expects to return with
Tsan Yu.  He came here to be sent as consul general to Peru, but owing
to the trouble between that country and Chili the consulate there was
never established.  He returned to China on leave of absence obtained
because his mother commanded his presence at home. He hopes to prevail
upon her to allow him to come back provided he receives a
reappointment from the government.  Officials at the legation explain
that the party of Chinese students who started for home are to be
employed in the establishment of a telegraph line from Shanghai to
Pekin. This week twenty of the most apt students were chosen.  They
are not yet expert operators, but will be taught there. It it believed
their knowledge in other branches of business will be exceedingly
important in the establishment of the line and management of the
offices. It is denied at the legation that the recall of the students
is on account of their republican teaching here. Although no cause is
assigned, it is supposed to have been ordered at the suggestion of
Superintendent Woo, of the Hartford school, who is a very conservative
Chinese gentleman, and caused his dissatisfaction.  It does not appear
to be distinctly understood by attaches of the legation, however, that
there has been no modification of the order. According to information
at the embassy no time has been set for their departure.
