Name: 1881-07-18-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1881-07-18
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 4
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1881-07-18/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: THE CHINESE WALL.
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE WALL.

In 1873 the Chinese Government was induced to establish an educational
Commission in this country, and since that time a large number of
Chinese students have been maintained at Hartford to receive the
advantages of a liberal education. This Commission has now been
abandoned, and the students recalled. Tho purpose of the Chinese
Government undoubtedly did not extend beyond the education of a
limited number of the highest class for service in diplomatic circles
at home and abroad. But it has been evident for some time past that
the Chinese youth who were sent to America have been learning more
than it was designed they should.  They have not contented themselves
with studying our language, and entering into tho abstract sciences
and belles lettres to which that language introduced them. They have
gradually assimilated American ideas and familiarized themselves with
the American system. They have been taught something of American
progress and practical way of doing things. For instance, a class of
twenty-five was recently established at Hartford in
telegraphy. Learning the character of the Chinese studies and the
influences of American associations, the Chinese Government has begun
to fear that the education the youth are receiving is of too practical
a character, and that its results will extend far beyond the
diplomatic circle to which it was proposed to confine it. The rulers
apprehend that some new breaks may be made in tho historic wall which
shuts out China from the rest of tho world. This is the reason for the
recall of tho students. It is not impossible, however, that the
Chinese Government may discover that it has already gone too far to
recede. Indeed, it is altogether likely that during the ten years in
which certain of the Chinese youth have enjoyed the advantages and
fascinations of American life the seeds have been sown for modern
progress which will continue to ripen under the influence of American
communications, and spread out among all classes in China. The young
men who have lived a few years in this country will not be able to
forget the conveniences, comforts, and luxuries of our system of
railroads, telegraphs, and labor-saving machines. They will retail
among their countrymen the advantages of American progress, and
develop a longing for similar appliances. Sufficient has already been
accomplished to plant the desire for progress among the Chinese, and
that is a passion which, once indulged, can overleap any wall which
tradition and superstition have erected. The recall of the students is
entirely characteristic of the old-time Chinese Government, but the
American system has been meanwhile sufficiently ingrafted upon the
Chinese system to assure a new growth of ideas in the Celestial
Kingdom.
