Name: 1881-08-11-sacramentio_union.txt
Date: 1881-08-11
Paper: Sacramento daily record-union
Paperkey: sacramentio_union
Page: 4
City: sacramento
State: CA california
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82014381/1881-08-11/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: The Chinese Embassy.
Author: 
---

The Chinese Embassy.

Chicago, August 10th. The Inter-Ocean's Washington special says: The
new Chinese Minister who is expected to arrive in November to succeed
Chin Len Tin is Ching Tsan Yu, about 55 years of age, who has been in
the Government service many years. He has been of late Government
Inspector of Arsenals, and more recently Director of Customs at Tien
Tsin. It is understood that Yung Wing's place of Assistant Envoy
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary will not be continued in
the future, and Minister Ching Tsan Yu will bring with him a full
complement of attaches for Consulates in Cuba, Peru and Spain, to
replace those who return. Some officials will be retained for the term
of three years, for which the Chinese Government makes its civil
appointments, but most of them will return to China. Of the attaches
here, it is understood at the Legation that Ho Shen Chee and Yen Tse
Chee will stay as part of the personnel of the new Embassy. Tou Sam
Kee, who recently returned to China, expects to return with Tsan
Yu. He came here to be sent as Consul-General to Peru, but owing to
the trouble between that country and Chile a Consulate there was never
established. He returned to China on leave of absence, obtained
because his mother commanded his presence at home. He hopes to prevail
on her to allow him to come back, provided he receives the appointment
from the Government.  Officials at the Legation explain that the party
of Chinese students who have started for home are to be employed in
the establishment of a telegraph line from Shanghai to Pekin. This
week twenty of the most apt students were chosen. They are not yet
expert operators, but will be taught there. It is believed their
knowledge in other branches of the business will be exceedingly
important in the establishment of the line and the management of
officials. It is denied at the Legation that the recall of the
students is on account of their republican teaching here. Although no
cause is assigned, the return is supposed to have been ordered at the
suggestion of Superintendent Woo, of the Hartford school, who is a
very conservative Chinese gentleman, and the cause of his
dissatisfaction does not appear to be distinctly understood by the
attaches of the Legation. However, there has been a modification of
the order, according to information at the Embassy, although no time
has been set for their departure.
