Name: 1881-11-19-southern_christian.txt
Date: 1881-11-19
Paper: Southern Christian advocate
Paperkey: southern_christian
Page: 3
City: 
State: GA georgia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn87065702/1881-11-19/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: A Southern Methodist College for Shanghai.
Author: 
---

A Southern Methodist College for Shanghai.
(Editorial from North China Daily News, Sept 8, 1881.)

The education of Chinese youths in foreign languages and sciences is a
subject which has for many years attracted a good deal of attention on
the part of the Government, and missionary enterprise has done more
good in that direction than all the efforts of the Chinese officials
have accomplished. The announcement was made recently that the
Government had resolved to recall the Chinese students sent to the
United States; but this is not done in the spirit of antipathy to the
only real and radical progress which the country can make, that of a
sound and high class education bestowed on young men to render them
capable of working for their country’s good. The Chinese Government
desire that youths should receive a sound Education in English and
other European languages, and also a thorough knowledge of the
sciences; and the desire on the part of the people is evident from the
fact that whenever examinations are held for admissions to any of the
Government foreign schools, the number of applications is always three
or four times greater than the number of admissions which it is
possible to make. The desire for foreign education is also amply
demonstrated in Shanghai by the private efforts which are made in the
shape of small English schools, conducted by foreigners who have
failed in everything else, and therefore quite naturally have come to
the conclusion that their real mission in life is to be schoolmasters;
however inferior the qualifications of the teacher, the scholars crowd
around him.  The excellent Anglo-Chinese school conducted by
Mr. Lanning, of course, occupies a higher place, but it is not
extensive enough to meet the demand that exists. Latterly a number of
Chinese that have picked up a smattering of English, have also
established small schools in Shanghai. It has, however, been found
that the Educational Mission abroad has not been conducted on proper
principles, and the great fault is that Chinese youths in America
become denationalized. They are sent abroad at the age of twelve to
thirteen, too young to have any knowledge either of the literature of
their own country, or of its laws and usages; their minds are expanded
with stores of knowledge of Western languages, arts and sciences, but
at the expense of driving out of them any little acquaintance with
their own country. They also acquire foreign customs, and become so
much altered in habits that the home life is more or less distasteful
to them. When the Government first proposed to send students to
America, the objection was pointed out that the boys sent were too
young, and the collapse of the scheme predicted on the very grounds on
which it has now taken place. The Rev.  Young J. Allen, D.D LL.D. of
the Southern Methodist Mission, was one who gave his advice against
the project on the grounds stated; and he now comes to the rescue with
a scheme which will afford all the advantages of a foreign education
for young Chinese students, with none of the disadvantages which have
operated against the success of those sent to America.

Dr. Allen has been identified with the educational movement in China
from the very first, having been here for twenty-two years; fifteen of
these have been spent in the Government School attached to the
Kiangnan Arsenal, the establishment of which was contemporaneous with
the founding of the T’ung wen Kuan at Peking, under the
superintendence of Dr. Martin. Had the students sent abroad first
undergone three or four years’ study at the Government School at
Shanghai, or a similar institution, the result would have been
different. During these years Dr. Alien has translated a large number
of educational books, besides having written many original works, and
has also for fourteen years been editing a Chinese newspaper and other
periodicals. Having been so long connected with the educational work
in China, and being so deeply interested in it, Dr. Allen has now
promulgated a scheme to meet the demand for foreign academic and
college education, which will confer an immense benefit on the
Chinese; and having resigned his connection with the Government
educational institution here to attend the Superintendency of the
Southern Methodist Mission, he wishes to avail himself of the
opportunity to reorganize the mission operations by the development of
the educational system of the Mission with the view of meeting this
demand. The plan now contemplated, and which is approved by the
Chinese local authorities, is to establish a college in the English
Settlement, fully organized and equipped with an efficient staff of
teachers, and necessary appliances; and branch institutions or
academies in the French Concession and in Kongkew. The first of the
academies will be built close to Dr. Allen’s church, at the southwest
corner of the French Concession; plans are already prepared for a
building of two stories, sixty two feet in length and thirty-eight
feet in Width, and capable of accommodating from two hundred and fifty
to three hundred pupils. Building operations are to commence this
week, and it is expected that the school will open at the Chinese New
Year. Following this one, a similar building will be erected at
Hongkew, and it is anticipated that in two years, or three at the
most, pupils will be sufficiently advanced to enter on the college
course, and by that time the central institution or college will be
ready for their reception. The staff of the branch institutions will
consist of two foreign and six or seven native teachers. A preparatory
department will also he attached to the central institution, so that
there will really be three schools feeding the college proper.

The pupils attending the French Concession and Hongkew schools will
come and go every day: but at the central institution there will be
accommodation for a limited number of boarders, so that youths from
the country can avail themselves of it. The course of studies will
embrace a thorough academic and college curriculum, extending over
eight years. The schools and college will be conducted on the
principle of Christian institutions at home; a closer analogy,
perhaps, being that presented by the Hindoo College in Calcutta,
founded by Dr. Duff on an evangelical basis. The Bible will be one of
the text books, and the highest culture in languages and sciences will
be given, and shown to be in no way incompatible with Christianity. It
is intended to make the tuition entirely free, unless in the event of
too many applications for admission being made, in which case a
nominal fee may have to be charged, as a limiting provision more than
anything else. If the schools and college were open only to youths
whose parents could afford to pay, the advantages would only be reaped
by the sons of wealthy Cantonese and Fohkienese traders, and the
education received would only be for commercial purposes; but by
opening the door free of charge, the children of the literary
class—which are of course poor—will be able to avail themselves of the
benefits of this most laudable and generous scheme of mission
enterprise.
