Name: 1881-07-27-daily_leader.txt
Date: 1881-07-27
Paper: The Cheyenne daily leader
Paperkey: daily_leader
Page: 4
City: cheyenne
State: WY wyoming
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022149/1881-07-27/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: A CHINAMAN INTERVIEWED.
Author: 
---

A CHINAMAN INTERVIEWED.

An Attache of the Chinese Embassy Explains Educational Matters.

As the boss hired man of the Leader I sauntered down to the depot
yesterday he observed two way up Chinese passengers sitting in a
Pullman car and enjoying a smoke from a pipe with machinery enough for
a bicycle. The two were arrayed in all the gorgeous attire of Chinamen
of noble rank and wore the proverbial tea-caddy mustaches, and seemed
to be "bang up" boys generally. An interview was next in order. There
was one very important point to inquire about, namely, the withdrawal
of Chinese students from American institutions of learning. Conductor
Huston, of the Pullman, presented the great North American interviewer
to the distinguished Chinaman, when the following conversation
ensued. Be it known that the Chinaman speaks English tolerably well,
his grammar being superior to his pronunciation.

"Might I inquire your name?" asked the scribe rather modestly, as a
start off.

"Certainly," replied the Chinaman with a frankness that set the writer
at his ease immediately. "It is Tsu Soon Kee."

"And your position?"

"I am an attache of the Chinese embassy at Washington."

"Are you returning to China?"

"Yes, sir. The terms of Lieu Cheong and myself are out, and we are
going home. But there will be a new embassy at Washington in
December. Jun Tsau Roo was appointed last month to succeed Chin Lan
Pin."

"Would you please tell me why the Chinese government has ordered the
withdrawal of the Chinese students in America?"

"Well, they won’t go home until four months from now. There are one
hundred in your country. When they go home the best educated will be
put to teaching in the English schools,and the rest will be sent to
different colleges in England, France and Germany."

"Why is America to be slighted?"

"You see we believe in a change."

"Are your graduates from American colleges too liberal for your home
statesmen?"

"Oh, no; only we want to change."

"You spoke of English schools in China; will they be continued?"

Yes, sir. We will also get more teachers from America and England.
The missionaries first established these schools."

"How about the schools to teach Chinese students the art of
telegraphy?"

"They will be stopped altogether.  Telegraph wires are being built in
China but English speaking operators will manage them. You may like to
know that we are having military and naval schools in which to educate
our young men. We want to establish as many schools at home as we
can."

It will be seen that America is being discriminated against in the
matter of education, and it seems easy to account for this. Chinese
students in America are more progressive than those educated in other
civilized communities. They take to the ways of civilization at once;
adopt American clothing and American wives and American ideas of
government. It is this last point especially that causes uneasiness to
the Chinese government.  They see that in a few years the American
graduates are liable to cause trouble in advocating the right of
suffrage and a constitutional government.
