Name: 1881-09-17-honolulu_advertiser.txt
Date: 1881-09-17
Paper: The Pacific commercial advertiser.
Paperkey: honolulu_advertiser
Page: 4
City: honolulu
State: HI hawaii
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015418/1881-09-17/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

Some twenty-five Chinese students arrived in San Francisco from the
East last month, and registered at the Palace Hotel, preparatory to
leaving for home on the next steamer. The San Francisco Chronicle says
of them: "The Chinese Government some years ago, with a view of
stimulating the young men in the Government schools to close
application to study and of elevating the educational standard,
resolved to offer as an incentive a series of competitive
examinations. Those who showed the greatest proficiency were to be
allowed to study abroad.  The main subjects were English and Chinese
literature. Gentlemanly deportment was also an indispensable
factor. In this way the idea of sending Chinese students abroad was
carried into practice, and continued until the present time.  The
cause of the withdrawal of these students was ascribed to the
increased want in China of practical engineers as well as skilled
telegraphic operators who knew Chinese and English. Another reason was
the desire of the Chinese Government to secure a military education
for the young men, which was found impossible in this country. The
students were dressed in American clothes, but laid much stress on the
fact that this had been done out of deference to the country which had
received them, and not because they had grown tired of their national
dress.  "Well," asked the reporter of one of them, "has not your
sojourn here affected your former ideas as to customs at home?" No; we
are noted for the love of our country. But placing it as a matter of
convenience I would rather assume the Oriental style. We have a
brilliant prospect before us and cannot afford to risk anything by
offending public taste. Oh, yes, we were very well treated in the
Eastern colleges, and leave very dear friends behind us whom we will
never forget."
