Name: 1881-08-27-daily_leader-2.txt
Date: 1881-08-27
Paper: The Cheyenne daily leader
Paperkey: daily_leader
Page: 4
City: cheyenne
State: WY wyoming
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022149/1881-08-27/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

Toward the Celestial Empire.

The great attractions of No. 3, yesterday, were the second party of
homeward bound Chinese students, who passed west on that train. The
party consisted of fifty-two, including Yung Tang Poo, the Chinese
teacher who accompanied them. This latter personage was clothed in a
long drab gown looking comfortable during this extremely warm weather,
if it did lack all the characteristics of beauty, in its
plainness. With this exception and the invariable presence of cues,
the party appeared dressed in as tony American apparel as our Yankee
youth are wont to don. They occupied two Pullman coaches, chartered
for their exclusive use, and appeared to be enjoying their journey
with zest The party left Hartford last Monday, but were somewhat
delayed in their passage, occupying the best of five days to this
point.  As to their future movements nothing new may be said, as they
are apparently as ignorant of their future moves as the American
reading public. They are very diplomatic, however, and may have more
knowledge on the subject than they wish to impart. It is generally
conceded, however, that the major part will go to European schools.

As the Leader reporter entered the car, he marked the number who were
engaged in writing, and investigation showed that they were inscribing
upon Uncle Sam's postal cards, with modern stylographic pens, in a new
language, a friendly record of their journey, for the entertainment of
the friends whom they left behind on their return to their aged mother
country. There is yet another party to come, before the exodus is
complete, and they, about thirty strong, will pass through this city
in about a week. It is a matter of regret that policy should dictate
the withdrawal of these students, for the new life with which their
new surroundings while here, have inspired their young blood, must be
a source of advantage to our own country in the change which it must
ultimately work in the older nation all the more in that these young
men come from the families which direct the affairs of their
country. Of the students, the Pullman conductor said that they were as
fine a party of young men as be had ever met, and their company as
desirable.
