Name: 1881-09-01-centre_democrat.txt
Date: 1881-09-01
Paper: Centre Democrat.
Paperkey: centre_democrat
Page: 3
City: bellefonte
State: PA pennsylvania
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84009409/1881-09-01/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

National and race prejudice is curiously illustrated by the recent
movement of a representative of the Celestial empire to break up the
Chinese educational mission at Hartford, Connecticut. While the
hoodlums of San Francisco were stoning inoffensive Mongolians in the
streets, while the Kearneys were asserting with rhetorical vehemence
and virulence that "the Chinese must go," and were urging the adoption
of means, by law and beyond the law, to that end, comparatively little
was heard in the way of imperial remonstrance. At all events no order
came from home to the Chinamen on the Pacific coast to empty their
washtubs, quit their quarters and return to their native land. Perhaps
a reason for this apparent indifference may be found in the fact that
the persecution of the Mongolians did not make them any less
Mongolian. On the contrary, it separated them from the rest of the
population and confirmed them in the habits of a peculiar
people. Whatever this explanation may be worth it is certain that the
ill treatment of the Chinese in San Francisco caused no such
excitement at home as has their good treatment at Hartford. The
breaking up of the educational mission is ascribed to the discovery
that the students were losing their national and race characteristics,
or to the fear that they would lose them. Some of them had gone so far
as to cut off their queues, to wear Caucasian garments, to eat, drink
and behave like Western barbarians. It looks as if the empire does not
care much how grossly its subjects are abused so long as they hold
fast to their peculiarities and continue distinctly and indomitably to
be Chinamen; while it will not tolerate oven a temporary way of life
which tends to merge their identity with that of a strange people.
"The effect of their sojourn," the imperial commissioner said in
substance, "was to alienate the boys from their country and its
customs, to undermine the most sacred traditional principles of
government and society, to implant and foster seditious ideas, which
would become the germ of social if not civil and religious troubles
among their own people."
