Name: 1881-07-30-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1881-07-30
Paper: New-York tribune.
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 1
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1881-07-30/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION.
Author: 
---

CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION.

WHAT IS CLAIMED TO BE THE INSIDE HISTORY OF THE RECALL OF THE STUDENTS
FROM AMERICA --- HASTY AND FALSE REPORTS OF A SPECIAL COMMISSIONER FROM CHINA
[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE TRIBUNE]

Boston, July 29---The inside history of the breaking up of the Chinese
Educational Mission at Hartford, Conn., is given by The Boston
Journal. It seems that a prominent Chinese official came to this
country With instructions to investigate the working progress at
Hartford. He was at first greatly shocked to see how the spirit of our
institutions has been caught up by the youths from China. They had in
some instances disposed of their queues, and, with the exception of
physiognomical peculiarities, they were to all intents and purposes
Americans, without political privileges. Yung Wing in vain explained
that, as a matter of social custom and convenience, the young men had
adopted the costumes of their fellow-students. The traditions and
natural antipathies of the civilized pagan could not be overcome so
easily, and forthwith he dispatched to Peking a letter in which he
condemned in unmeasured terms the measures and tendencies of the
Mission. He declared that the effect of their sojourn was to alienate
the boys from their country and its customs, to undermine the most
sacred traditional principles of government and society, to implant
and foster seditious ideas, which would become the germ of social, if
not civil and religious, troubles among their own people.

One of the principal designs of the Chinese authorities in
establishing the mission was thoroughly to train a corps of
manufacturing engineers, who would be able to introduce and manage a
complete system of textile machinery. China is anxious to compete in
the cotton and woollen markets of the world, a field in which cheap
coolie labor would enable the Chinese to become active competitors. It
is claimed, and must to certain extent be admitted, that nowhere in
the United States can such practical instruction in these specific
industrial branches be obtained as is given in a number of European
institutions.

The assertion also made by the Chinese emissary in the early part of
his visit, that American machinery and manufacturing products in the
great mills of the country are inferior to what may be seen on the
other side of the water, will, of course, be indignantly denied by
every well-informed American manufacturer. Of his error in this
respect the Commissioner has been fully convinced. He greatly regrets
having informed his Government that the students were being crammed
merely with dead languages and theoretical science, and he has
endeavored to remove the false impression first created, but in this
he has been almost entirely unsuccessful. In order to counteract as far
as possible the wrong impression first conveyed, the Chinese Special
Commissioner has spent some weeks in collecting evidence of the
superiority of American fabrics and textile and other
machinery. Within the last week he has visited Newburyport, Mass.,
where several wealthy millowners have in the past year experimented
with English machines and methods at an expense of $300,000. They have
clearly demonstrated that America is 25 per cent ahead of English
competitors in the producing capacity of machinery and in relative
cost of manufacture.

The Commissioner has also noted the fact that within a few days the
Union Carriage Company has sold to the Austrian Government a single
patent for a small improvement for $45,000.  Specimens of American
handiwork in watch machinery, cartridges, etc., etc., are being
collected to be taken to China as corroborative evidence of industrial
progress in this country.

It is interesting to that a skilled manufacturing engineer of this
city has recently been offered $100,000 to go to China five years and
superintend the further establishment of industrial enterprises.
