Name: 1881-08-19-lancaster_intelligencer.txt
Date: 1881-08-19
Paper: Lancaster daily intelligencer.
Paperkey: lancaster_intelligencer
Page: 2
City: lancaster
State: PA pennsylvania
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83032300/1881-08-19/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: The Chinese Students.
Author: 
---

The Chinese Students.

The Chinese government makes a singular movement in ordering back to
China the students that are now studying in our American
colleges. Some years age Yung Wing, who graduated at Yale college in
1853, and subsequently married a Yankee girl in Hartford---where he
new lives in elegant style---persuaded his government to permit the
education of ether Celestials in our colleges, just as he had been,
and Yale college has had a good many Chinese students since, and some
have been studying at Lafayette college, in our Pennsylvania town of
Easten. But now they have all been ordered home. Yung Wing having
lately been made one of the Chinese ambassadors here---we believe
there are two---his functions as overseer of the students have
devolved on another Chinaman and he, it is said, does not approve of
the education of his fellow citizens in our colleges and has secured
their recall. If so, he must want to go home himself, as his
occupation will be gene when they go. And it may be only the
homesickness of this Celestial that causes the flitting. Still, the
explanation is not satisfactory. We fail to understand why he should
be homesick for China, and chop-sticks and rice, and hari-kari, and
all the ether Chinese delights that we don't appreciate; but then they
say a man may be homesick for any home, however homely. But has this
particular sufferer been able to contemplate the bliss of Yung Wing,
with a nice Yankee wife, and a well-to-do father-in-law, and a cottage
in the beautifully shaded town of Hartford, without longing himself
for a girl and house and Yankee father-in-law?  It is sad to think
that he cannot thus be tempted and sadder he knew that a score or mere
of bright Celestial youths are taken out of the way of Yung Wing's
luck---sad for the Yankee girls, anyway; we hope the Chinese emperor
will kindly reconsider. Some of us object to having the Chinese come
among us as cheap laborers, for they take away our work and our cash
and don't take away any wives to enjoy it with them around their tea
plants; but students, who come and spend their money here and marry
our girls, we rather take to; they are eminently useful.
