Name: 1881-08-24-philadelphia_times.txt
Date: 1881-08-24
Paper: Philadelphia Times
Paperkey: philadelphia_times
Page: 1
City: philadelphia
State: PA pennsylvania
Url: 
Title: Woo Kia Shin, Han Lin.
Author: 
---

Woo Kia Shin, Han Lin.

Woo Kia Shin, Han Lin, is a conservative. While he would like to see
the young gentlemen of the Celestial Empire well furnished in all that
can store the youthful mind with intellectual capital for future
usefulness, he is disposed to shut down on them when they step too far
from the paths of learning in which their ancestors walked. There is
nothing on earth for which the Chinaman has so much respect as the
memory of his ancestors. The wonder is that such Han Lins and other
learned Chinese as Woo Kia Shin ever consented to the establishment of
the Chinese Educational Mission. For the Japanese such a step is
natural and easy, for the Japs are the very reverse of the Chinese as
to the reverence they entertain for ancient manners and sentiment. But
for the Chinese to send their boys to acquire manners and learn of
institutions as radically different as ours are from those they would
learn at home was too pronounced a change to be of long standing.

It now comes out that the great Han Lin who goes by the name of Woo
Kia Shin has come to the conclusion that the Chinese boys have learned
enough of American wisdom and are now in danger of picking up American
nonsense. Shin likes the wisdom but would shun the nonsense. Like many
other educators, he finds some difficulty in drawing a line between
the one and the other. So he concludes to chop off education at the
point now reached. He thinks the Chinese boys have learned all that
will do them any good. He fears that if they keep on learning the rest
of what they pick up will be evil only. They are learning too many
American ways and adopting too many of our ideas. That is the long and
short of it, and Shin made his report to the Chinese Government, the
result of which was the ordered recall of the students. The boys are
sorry, for they were having a good time. They were equipping their
minds with that which would have made them, on completing their
courses of training, the most competent men for learning among the
Chinese. They would have been sent out in airs in the most lofty and
prodigal manner before all the noted Chinese children. Perhaps this
was one of the things which Shin wanted to prevent. Shin is a hero.
