Name: 1881-09-27-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1881-09-27
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 6
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1881-09-27/ed-1/?sp=6
Title: 
Author: 
---

Hong Kong, Sept. 10.—A rising of the Chinese against foreigners has
taken place in Foo Chow, owing to a question of missionary title. The
English missionaries had accepted a change of location. Money had to
be collected from local sources to pay the compensation, and there was
a difficulty in getting it from the householders.  The mob, waiting
for the arrival of the native officials to inspect tho public works,
stoned and ill-treated two foreigners, and destroyed tho foreign
recreation-ground. They were quelled by the native police. A British
gunboat proceeds to Foo Chow, but the officials are prepared to make
the necessary amends.

Fierce weather has continued along the Chinese coast. Typhoons are
reported at Shanghai and Hong Kong, with serious damage to shipping
there and at sea.

Thu American Minister has published a notification providing for the
service of summons by Consuls upon citizens absent or in concealment
by means of advertisements in local papers.  Minister Angell will
return shortly to America, via Europe.

Von Brandt, the German Minister, about to return home on leave, is
detained through a hitch in the arrangements with Tsung Li Yamen about
the Likin or inland transit duties on foreign goods, the Chinese
trying to evade certain stipulations of the recent treaty.

The American treaties concluded last fall and ratified this year at
Peking are published by order of the American Minister, and citizens
are ordered to obey their provisions. The principal point is that
Americans shall not have anything to do with the opium traffic. The
treaty is very unpopular among leading American merchants in
China. The Chinese are dissatisfied with the treaty, and vexed at tho
probable restriction on obligation. They think the American action
unfriendly. The withdrawal of the Chinese students from America to be
sent to European colleges is solely ascribable to the hostile
sentiments about the treaty.

More gunboats have arrived from England. The foreign crews have
returned home. An uneasy feeling is still apparent about the Loo Choo
question. Japan firmly resolved to keep possession, and China is much
irritated. The Mainia Government Lottery tickets have been seized in
Hong Kong and confiscated, as lotteries are illegal in British
territory. Tho Portuguese Colonial Government protests against the
seizure.
