Name: 1881-08-26-springfield_republican-2.txt
Date: 1881-08-26
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 6
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1881-08-26/ed-1/?sp=6
Title: 
Author: 
---

ARTS AND LETTERS.

The departure of the Chinese educational mission from the United
States reminds us of a remarkable work by Kwong Ki Chiu, one of its
members, entitled “A Dictionary of English Phrases with Illustrative
Sentences,” which A.S. Barnes & Co of New York publish. This
dictionary would be interesting in itself, but its authorship by an
Asiatic makes it marvelous.  It is a very large collection of
idiomatic, colloquial and slang phrases, besides literary expressions,
explained by carefully constructed parallel expressions. Mr
Kwong—though his name is printed as above, he signs it, in a hand as
elegant as copperplate, K. C. Kwong,—compiled this in the first place
to aid his countrymen in acquiring a knowledge of English; and in the
course of the work discovered that the amount of metaphor and imagery
in that language was a revelation to those who spoke it and so was
persuaded to publish it for them also. His preface is as interesting
as any part of his work, as it shows how intelligently he entered upon
his task. "The real meaning," he observes, “of the idiomatic phase 'to
kill time’ cannot be learned from its literal meaning.  We cannot
speak of putting to death the impersonal and incorporeal thing which
we call time. But the mind of the English speaking race has taken
these words, and by its imagination and moral power combined, has
expressed its sense of the faultiness of certain ways of spending
time, by saying that they serve ‘to kill time.” There is a certain
fascination, bordering sometimes on amusement, in watching this keenly
intelligent Chinaman as he wrestles so ingeniously and perserveringly
with the intricacies of our tongue. Sometimes of course he misses, as
when he defines “at a low ebb” as equivalent to “in a state of
decline,” without explaining the allusion to the tide. To speak “at
random” is not the same as to speak “vaguely,” and so there might be
pointed out a number of small slips. The book contains over 900 large
8vo pages, and besides the phrase-list there is a collection and
explanation of English proverbs, of Chinese proverbs and maxims, a
list of the Chinese dynasties with dates harmonized with Christian
chronology—this is, we need not say, mere guess-work,—and brief
accounts of Confucius and Jesus.  Mr Kwong leaves behind him a
considerable souvenir of the sojourn of Chinese students.
