Name: 1881-04-23-chicago_tribune.txt
Date: 1881-04-23
Paper: Chicago daily tribune.
Paperkey: chicago_tribune
Page: 9
City: chicago
State: IL illinois
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84031492/1881-04-23/ed-1/?sp=9
Title: DICTIONARY OF ENGLISH PHRASES
Author: 
---

DICTIONARY OF ENGLISH PHRASES

This is a curious work. It Is written by a foreigner for the benefit
of English-speaking people, and is intended to illustrate for them the
use of the phrases of their language. It is the work of a Chinese
scholar, Kwong Ki Chiu, late member of the Chinese Educational Mission
in the United States, and who was formerly principal teacher of
English in the Government School at Shanghai for training young men to
go to the headquarters of the Educational Mission at Hartford,
Conn. He has prepared a complete “Dictionary of English Phrases, with
Illustrative Sentences”; a large octavo of over 900 pages. Those
phrases are classified as Idioms, Colloquialisms, and Slang; and,
after being defined, examples are given to illustrate their use. Such
phrases as “to beggar description,” “to eat humble pie,” “to slop
over,” "crocodile tears,” “qualified negative,” may be cited as
specimens. The list is very complete, much more so than can be found
in any of the unabridged dictionaries of the English language; a fact
which will be perceived when it is stated that more than 6,000 phrases
are treated. Additional matter is also found in the book—such as a
collection and explanation of English proverbs; of Chinese proverbs
and maxims, and a list of the Chinese dynasties,—the dates of which
are harmonized with the Christian chronology,—with some account of
their rise and full; also, a short sketch of Confucius, the Chinese
sage. Names of Emperors and dynasties are printed in Chinese type as
well as English. It is a rather singular fact, as President Eliot
says, that a Chinese scholar should have produced, in the heart of New
England, a book in English and about English which gives proof of so
much knowledge, discrimination, and industry.  It is a very valuable
book of reference for every one,—not only of service to students in
American schools, but also to foreigners in that it teaches how the
idioms and phrases of the language are to be used. Much of our common
speech is metaphorical and figurative, and especially puzzling to
foreigners.  So far as we know this is the only book which
satisfactorily removes this difficulty in the English. It is an
interesting work in which the author has displayed remarkable
industry. The book Is published by A S.  Barnes & Co., and is to be
issued in Shanghai with the addition of the Chinese translation or
equivalents.
