Name: 1881-07-29-national_republican.txt
Date: 1881-07-29
Paper: National Republican
Paperkey: national_republican
Page: 1
City: washington
State: DC district of columbia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn86053573/1881-07-29/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: CHINESE STUDENTS GOING.
Author: 
---

CHINESE STUDENTS GOING.

Effect of the Recent Order from the Celestial Empire.

New York, July 29.--The recent order
of the Chinese government withdrawing all the
students of the Celestial Empire from colleges
and other Institutions of learning in the United
States is being rigorously enforced. Instructions on the subject were
sent from the
Chinese embassy in Washington to every quarter of the country where
the Celestials are
located. Great care has been taken to have
the name of every student entering a college in
this country registered at the embassy where a
record as to age, family connections, course of
studies, and the profession for which each student
was intended was faithfully kept. In this way the
Chinese Minister could have ready access at all
times to his countrymen here. When the order
was received from Pekin copies were sent to every
student of that nationality in the different institutions of
learning throughout the States.

WHAT THE JAPANESE CONSUL SAYS.

As no Chinese consulate exists in this city the reporter called at the
office of Consul General Kimihira Yegawa of Japan, No. 7 Warren
street.  The vice-consul spoke very freely on the matter, saying he
was very much surprised if such an order was really issued from
Pekin. "You must excuse me," said he, "If I don't place as much faith
in the report that the order was issued as you do, and I will give you
my reasons. In tho first place it is a great injustice to young men
who have entered on their collegiate course and many of whom no doubt
have passed through more than half of their term to withdraw them. It
is to them a loss in money and to a great extent a loss of time, as
the courses vary in different colleges. Then I would like to know what
advantage can be gained by sending them to England, France, or
Germany."

"But it is charged that the unfriendly spirit existing against the
Chinese here gave rise to the order?"

"There is no unfriendly spirit here, that is if you mean this section
of the country. Just look at the condition of the Chinese in this
city, where they number three thousand. I don't think they have any
reason to complain of their condition. They have a college or academy
for their own use exclusively at Hartford and surely they ought to be
able to get along there. I can hardly bring myself to believe that any
spirit of jealousy toward American Institutions exists on tho part of
the Chinese government, and it would be silly to suppose that any
danger can be apprehended from educated young men filled with the
spirit of their own nationality. By all means let there be such a
restriction that when the education of the young men is completed here
they shall return and diffuse the knowledge they have acquired. This
will be in accord with tho traditions, literature, history, and
customs of their country and will not offend the national pride."

"Why should not a Chinese consulate be established in this city?"

"Well (laughing), I suppose tho Chinese have such confidence in the
American spirit of fair play they do not think any necessary. They may
consider that as so many or their people have prospered here the
Americans are doing right by them and that therefore they have no need
of official representation. Seriously speaking, however, I suppose
they will come to that some day."

"Has there ever been any difficulty in regard to the students from
Japan in this country?"

"None whatever. We have no fault to find but on the contrary both the
young men and young women have progressed wonderfully and been very
cordially treated in the schools and colleges in whatever State they
entered."

The consul further added that schools were rapidly multiplying in
China and it was also reported that military and naval academies were
soon to be established. It will not be many years before a good
system of national education will be in existence in the Chinese
Empire and hence there is greatest necessity of having thoroughly
educated and trained teachers. This can only be accomplished by
sending the young men who are to be the future educators of the
Empire, and will in a great measure control its destinies, to foreign
countries to prepare them for the work.
