Name: 1881-08-08-daily_argus.txt
Date: 1881-08-08
Paper: The Rock Island Argus
Paperkey: daily_argus
Page: 2
City: rock island
State: IL illinois
Url: 
Title: 
Author: 
---

The statement that the Chinese government has ordered the large number
of young Chinamen who were receiving instruction in this country, to
European countries to complete their education, is denied by such
authority as Yung Wing. He is the resident guardian of these young
celestials in this country, and his denial is certainly
conclusive. They are ordered to return to the Flowery Kingdom. Their
return is demanded, not because these youths are wanted at home, but
because they are learning too much.

It is because they have grown to look and act and feel so like our
boys, because they have become so thoroughly Americanized, that the
Chinese Government breaks up the educational mission at Hartford and
orders home the boys under its care. At least that, we are told, is
one of the chief reasons for the abandonment of the enterprise. And
from the point of view of the Chinese authorities the action is easily
understandable. It is, indeed, surprising, so wedded are they to their
social traditions, that they ever hazarded the experiment of trusting
a picked number of their youth, presumably boys of the best
intellectual promise, amid the influences of a totally different and
an antagonistic civilization; that they dared put them during the
formative period of their lives in a republic whose ideas are so
hostile to Chinese imperialism as are those of the United States. We
do not wonder that the ambassador from China who came here on a tour
of investigation was struck with alarm and horror when he saw that his
young countrymen had abandoned their national dress, some of them even
going so far as to cut off the queue, the indispensable badge of a
Chinaman, and that they had readily adapted themselves to the ways and
habits and possibly acquired the modes of thought and imbibed the free
notions of the people among whom they were.

It required no Dennis Kearney to utter the proclamation "The Chinese
must go," but that going was decided by the home government when it
learned that the young Chinese were imbibing too freely or the
peculiar ideas and customs of our country. It is barely possible that
the information already imparted to them will result in some changes
in the Chinese government before many years are permitted to elapse.
