Name: 1881-10-14-washington_standard.txt
Date: 1881-10-14
Paper: Washington standard
Paperkey: washington_standard
Page: 4
City: olympia
State: WA washington
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022770/1881-10-14/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: Why the Chinese Students Go.
Author: 
---

Why the Chinese Students Go.

The departure of the Chinese students from the Eastern schools has
been the occasion of many surmises.  The opinions are various. The
Washington Post of August 20th says: Young Wi Chaing, the Assistant
Commissioner of Education, will start for China on Monday with another
party of Chinese students, numbering forty.  It is said, also, that in
September Commissioner Woo will return with the rest, and the
establishment at Hartford will be closed up and deserted. Young Wi
Chaing thinks his Government will eventually send another lot of boys
to be educated. He denies that his Government is removing the students
because they are becoming Americanized, but he says that the boys came
here when about 10 years old, and now have grown up till they all
range from 19 to 21 years of age, and it is time that some use was
being made of them.  They will all be put at work on the new telegraph
line from Peking to Tientsin.  Some of them who have been here since
they were 10 years old have forgotten their own language to such an
extent that they can with difficulty carry on a conversation in it. He
says, further, that the Chinese Government has decided to adopt a
military system modeled after West Point, and it will be located at
Tientsin.

There is another view, however—the Chinese side. That is presented by
a correspondent of the New York Herald, writing from Tientsin, China,
July 19th, who gives what he calls the "inside facts" which have
caused the recall of the students. He says:

You n America are already informed of the breaking up of the Chinese
Educational Mission. It is a great pity to discontinue so useful and
promising a work. The people in America are familiar with the
circumstances of its establishment through the influence and under the
auspices of the educated Chinaman, Yung Wing, who was graduated at
Harvard College and married an American wife. He induced the Chinese
Government to appropriate about §2,000,000 from the customs revenue
for sending some boys to America to be educated in military and naval
science and in other scientific branches.  The mission was established
in 1872.  and in three years thereafter 120 boys were at school in
America.

Ever since that we have always heard that these boys were doing well
in the schools and colleges of America, as regards both scholarship
and conduct, so that the Government was satisfied and had not thought
of interfering with the mission or of discontinuing it.  but when the
present Commissioner, Woo Kia Shin, went to America, about a year and
a half ago, he began to send back adverse reports. He is a scholar of
high rank in China, having the title Han Lin, which is among the most
important literary degrees. But he seems to belong to the conservative
class of Chinamen and to look with disfavor upon the social customs
and educational methods of America.

All his reports were of a disparaging and fault-finding character, and
he continued to assert that it was quite impossible to improve
matters, so that he recommended its abolishment.

At the beginning of the present year the Minister at Washington, Chin
Lan Pin, was instructed to investigate the matter and report to the
Government.  In this report he says: "Mr. Woo says, `Although the boys
have not learned all the useful arts and sciences, they have already
adopted all the bad customs' [of America]. From what Mr.  Woo says I
judge that this mission will be of more harm than advantage to the
Chinese Government. There is no need for the boys to stay longer, for
they have such beginnings of knowledge that on their return to China
they can perfect themselves. I judge that the mission should be
abolished immediately."
