Name: 1881-10-15-daily_astorian.txt
Date: 1881-10-15
Paper: The Daily Astorian
Paperkey: daily_astorian
Page: 1
City: astoria
State: OR oregon
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn96061149/1881-10-15/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: They Will Go Home and Take Their Tails Behind Them.
Author: 
---

LEAVE THEM ALONE

They Will Go Home and Take Their Tails Behind Them.

Twenty-five Chinese students being all remaining in America, and two
Chinese Government Commissioners are now at the Palace Hotel waiting
to take passage for their native land.  The students are all from Yale
College, at which institution most of them have been for six years.
Those who have departed for China were students at other New England
colleges. The $100,000 building erected by China for its Commissioners
is to be sold. Yung Wing, at whose instance the Chinese students first
came to America, will soon go to China, but it will be on business
only and he will return to Hartford, where he has a family by an
American wife, which place he will make his permanent home. It was
when Prince Kung and the party of "young China" was in the ascendancy
that 120 students and the Commissioners, the last of whom are now here
on their way home, were sent to the United States.  The intent was
that these 120 students should learn specially the theories, the arts
and sciences that would more immediately enable China to develop a
commerce and the resources of the vast country, and that when the
students should return to China their acquirement should be imparted
to the other 400,000,000 Chinese, all of whom could not be comfortably
accommodated in New England colleges.  But the conservative Chinese
party, the literati, regained the ascendancy, and the recall of the
students is believed to be one of the results of the exclusive policy,
another of which was the construction of the crockery wall round the
flowery land. The alleged reason, however, of the recall is that the
young gentlemen were learning bad habits, which, being imparted upon
their return to their compatriots whom they had left behind them,
would be disastrous to the lofty and delicate line of moral and social
ethics obtaining among the people presided over by the brother of the
sun, the "cussin" of the new moon, and the only begotten child of the
milky way. The present Emperor, and the blood relation of all the
principal points of interest in the sidereal heavens, as aforesaid, is
a youth whose extreme rickety health gives hopeful promise that he
will presently lay aloft, and himself become a fixed constellation.
He is the last of the Montchoo dynasty to date, and it is fondly
believed that when, as a little star, he shall twinkle up above the
world so high like a diamond in the sky, and when "young China" is
again summoned to take its trick at the wheel of State, the students
now departing, or others, will come to America. S. F. Chronicle.
