Name: 1881-03-10-lancaster_intelligencer.txt
Date: 1881-03-10
Paper: Lancaster daily intelligencer.
Paperkey: lancaster_intelligencer
Page: 2
City: lancaster
State: PA pennsylvania
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83032300/1881-03-10/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: A UNIQUE VOLUME.
Author: 
---

A UNIQUE VOLUME.

A Chinaman's Work on the English Language.

The Providence Journal in a recent issue says: We have before us a
remarkable book, no less than a dictionary of English phrases, with
illustrative sentences, by Kwong Ki Chin, a Chinese scholar, who for
the last five years has been a member of the Chinese educational
mission in the United States, residing at Hartford.

The work under notice consists, first, of idioms, colloquialisms and
current English phrases, with their definitions; second, slang and
cant phrases, idiomatic phrases, terms and phrases of the stock
exchange; all these are accompanied with examples of their use; third,
English proverbs, Chinese proverbs and maxims, Latin and French
phrases. These are followed by a historical sketch of the Chinese
Dynasties, in which the dates are harmonized with Christian
chronology. Following is a sketch of Confucius, the Chinese sage, and
of Jesus Christ. The book closes with a full index, making altogether
a stout volume of 914 octave pages.

To compile a dictionary properly requires many years of close study, some
times, indeed, a lifetime, even for scholars
with minds trained in languages having
an affinity with their mother tongue; but
for an Oriental scholar, and he a native of
the Celestial Empire, to compile a work
such as that before us, and so well done,
is remarkable. We possess dictionaries of
idioms; colloquial phrases and slang terms, 1
but in none of them is the subject treated
in the manner of our Chinese scholar. Our
lexicographers condense their definitions
as much as possible, but Mr. Kwong's definitions are generally fuller,
often double,
and in every case accompanied by illustrations of the use of the idioms.
We give a few examples

Stiff as a poker. Excessively stiff.
Our new laundress made my cellar as stiff as a poker. Our new laundress made
my collars excessively stiff.

To stuff the ballot-box (U.S.) To put in many fraudulent votes.
It is a criminal offense to stuff the ballot-box in the election of officers.

Straight ticket. A ticket containing the regular nominations of a party without
change.
The mere politician always votes the straight ticket. The one who is merely
devoted to the advancement of a political party always votes the regular
ticket with out change.

We select a few of the Chinese maxims:

"Curtailing expenses cures poverty."

"Education cures rudeness of speech and conduct; the practice of music cures
heedlessness."

"First be correct yourself, then correct others."

"Forego expenses for useless objects and devote the money to better purposes."

"If another person has failings do not reveal them."

"Diligence can compensate for dullness; economy in public affairs would remove
all occasion for their being corrupted by bribes."

A well known Christian maxim we find here from Confucius, who lived in the
sixth century before the Christian era; though differently expressed:

"Do not do to others what you do not wish them to do to you."

Preceding the title of the book is a finely engraved portrait of Mr. Kwong,
form which it is evident that he is a man of marked intelligence.

Upon the whole the book will be interesting as well as instructive to
English readers, and foreigners not familiar with our colloquial
language.  It is highly commended by the presidents of Yale and
Harvard colleges, as well as by gentlemen who have made the English
language their particular study.
