Name: 1881-03-27-knoxville_chronicle.txt
Date: 1881-03-27
Paper: Knoxville daily chronicle.
Paperkey: knoxville_chronicle
Page: 2
City: knoxville
State: TN tennessee
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85033437/1881-03-27/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: Kwong's Dictionary
Author: 
---

LITERARY NOTICE.

Kwong's Dictionary

Messrs. A. S. Barnes Co., New York, have just published something
unique in the field of literature.  Kwong Ki Chiu, late member of the
Chinese Educational Mission in the United States, was formerly
principal teacher of English in the government school at Shanghai for
training young men to go to the headquarters of the Educational
Mission at Hartford, Conn. He has prepared a complete "Dictionary of
English Phrases, with Illustrative Sentences;" a large octavo of over
900 pages. These phrases are classified as Idioms Colloquialisms, and
Slang, and, after being defined, examples are given illustrating their
use.  Such phrases as "to beggar description," "to eat humble pie,"
"to slop over," "crocodile tears," "qualified negative," may be cited
as specimens.  The list is very complete, much more so than can be
found in any of the unabridged dictionaries of the English language; a
fact which will be perceived when it is stated that more than 6,000
phrases are treated.

Additional matter is also found in the book---such as a collection and
explanation of English Proverbs; of Chinese Proverbs and Maxims; and a
list of the Chinese dynasties---the dates of which are harmonized with
the Christian Chronology---with some account of their rise and fall;
also a short sketch of Confucius, the Chinese sage.  Names of Emperors
and dynasties are printed in Chinese type as well as English.

Kwong Ki Chiu has expended several years' labor upon the work and has
had the assistance of several able American scholars.  No similar book
has been attempted before, and it must prove exceedingly useful to
students of the English language in American and English schools, or
pursuing private studies; inasmuch as it not only presents the idioms
and phrases of the language, but teaches how they are to be used.  The
book is thus a great saver of time to the student, in that it brings
before him definitions and linguistic usages which it might take him
half a life time to find and become familiar with.  It will be even
more useful to foreigners, as Chinese, Japanese, Frenchmen, Germans,
Spaniards, and the like, desirous of acquiring the English language in
the easiest and most practical way.

It also possesses great value as a book of reference in the family or
public library, and cannot fail to be useful to every person, inasmuch
as it covers a wider field of expression than any one person is likely
to be familiar with.  Dr. Porter, president of Yale College, and
editor of the revised edition of Webster's Unabridged Dictionary;
Dr. Eliot, of Harvard; Dr. Pynchon, of Trinity; President Gilman and
Prof. Cook, of Johns Hopkins University; Profs. Whitney and Lounsbury,
of Yale; Hon. Henry Barnard, LL.D., and Hon. B.G. Northrop, LL.D.,
secretaries of the Connecticut board of education, and other
distinguished scholars and educators, give testimony as to its value
to all races and classes.

Copies of the book may be obtained by express or mail, of the publishers,
Messrs. A.S. Barnes & Co., 111 and 113 William street New York, by remitting
the price, $5.00.
