Name: 1881-08-13-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1881-08-13
Paper: New-York tribune.
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 4
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1881-08-13/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: THE CHINESE STUDENTS.
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE STUDENTS.

The hasty recall of the Chinese youths who were sent here several
years ago by the Imperial Government argues recent and violent change
in the policy at Peking. It was tacitly understood that the object Of
sending these young men, all members of influential families, was not
only that they should learn mathematics and languages, but become
imbued with the moving ideas of our civilisation. They are now
suddenly ordered home because is feared that they are taking in too
much civilization of the American sort.

There can be little doubt that this order is due to the deposition
from power of Prince Li, and the dominant influence at Peking of
General Tso-teung-tang, who is now Minister of War, and, what is more
to the purpose, the popular idol, with an enormous and victorious army
to back him, which has been drilled and equipped under his personal
supervision, in a manner totally without precedent in the history of
China. This remarkable man is exercising as powerful an influence over
present Asiatic policy as Cromwell did in England or Napoleon in
France. He is the Mongolian species of Cromwell or Bonaparte, and has
now the force which a man of iron will, indomitable obstinacy and
blunt, outspoken directness would gain when placed in authority over
hordes of shifty, subtle, smooth Asiatics. In character he resembles
an old Scotch Puritan rather than a Mongolian but in his policy and
purpose he is a Chinese of the Chinese. He proposes (if the native and
foreign journals at Peking report his proceedings correctly) to
elevate China to a position among nations which she never has reached
before. The lost territory has been regained, opium is to be shut out,
and the people rescued from their chronic drunkenness.  He has helped
to establish manufactories and railways, has used foreign machinery,
and the army is equipped with European guns and artillery and drilled
by European officers. In short, he is quite willing to make use of
American and European appliances to help China upward, but he does not
intend that China shall become an inferior imitation of either America
or Europe. The Chinese lads are brought home before they are too much
imbued with the leaven of democratic ideas or the Christian faith.

There is no more singular problem now before the world than the
question, which very likely will be settled in the next forty years,
as to how far the ancient civilizations of India, China, and Japan
will be influenced by modern thought and religion. Eastern thought is
that of an old man; it has passed out of the consideration of
every-day practical duties and rules; it is slow, subtle, philosophic;
its religion rises away from the commonplace to a profound, gloomy
communion with the abstraction of life and death, or contemplation of
a vague impersonal Deity. Eastern practice is, too, the habit of life
of an aged man in his second childhood; it is tardy, weak and trivial;
he is blind, his hold is feeble on the real things about him, but he
is obstinately complacent in supreme faith in himself. There is the
east, with mighty truths in its brain and decrepit in body; and here
is the West, with its new blood, its practical religion, its
aggressive driving fury of work, machinery and ideas. The young man
may go on plundering the old, as he has done for two generations, but
we doubt if he will ever convert him to his ways of thinking or
practice, or put new alien blood into his veins. As far as China, most
decrepit of all Eastern peoples, is concerned, General Tso will probably
decide her fate for the next generation, and keep her where she is.
