Name: 1873-07-23-state_journal.txt
Date: 1873-07-23
Paper: The Daily state journal
Paperkey: state_journal
Page: 1
City: 
State: VA virginia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84024670/1873-07-23/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

Railroad Train Thrown From the Track and Robbed.

A dispatch from Desmoines, Iowa, dated July 22, says an extraordinary
and daring robbery on a railroad train was committed last night four
miles west of Adair, on the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
railroad. At this point there is a sharp curve in the road and here
the robbers placed heavy timbers across the track to throw the eastern
bound passenger train off. The engineer, John Rafferty, saw the
obstructions in time to reverse the engine and apply the air break,
but the robbers observing the movement fired at him from an ambush and
shot him dead. The engine struck the logs and went off the track into
a ditch, and was followed by one of the baggage cars—the others
remaining on the track. Several passengers were bruised, but none
seriously hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after opening and
emptying the safe of the express messenger of its contents, rode off
on horseback.  Among the passengers were thirty Chinese students en
route for Springfield, Mass.

A dispatch from Chicago says the train left Council Bluffs at five
o'clock with six coaches, two filled with Chinese students, and two
baggage and express cars, in which was the through California mails
and express matter. The express safe contained §2,000, and there was
three tons of bullion. Tho robbery was perpetrated eighty-five miles
west of Desmoines. The train was going at the rate of twenty-five
miles per hour. No houses were in sight.  Meeting the obstructions the
train jumped the track. The engineer died from concussion or bullets
the fireman escaped.  The baggage cars doubled on each other.  Then
the robbers commenced their nefarious proceedings, which consumed ten
minutes time. After they left the telegraph was used to send the news
in all directions. Engines and a posse were sent out from Council
Bluffs on the Burlington and other roads to intercept the robbers, who
appeared to be regular bush-whackers. They made preparations for
throwing the cars off before the cars came along.  None of the
passengers were injured.  Three wrecked cars arrived here at 7:30 this
morning with the dead body of the engineer, who leaves a wife and
several children.
