Name: 1873-07-23-nashville_union.txt
Date: 1873-07-23
Paper: Nashville union and American.
Paperkey: nashville_union
Page: 1
City: nashville
State: TN tennessee
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85033699/1873-07-23/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CRIMINAL CALENDAR

Daring Robbery of an Express Train

The Engineer Killed at his Post.

The Train Ditched and the Safe Robbed by Masked Men.

Des Moines, Iowa, July 22. An extraordinary and daring robbery of a
railroad train was committed last night, four miles west of Adair, on
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad. At this point there is
a sharp curve in the road, and here the robbers had placed heavy
timbers across the track to throw the east bound passenger train off
the track. The engineer, John Rafferty, saw the obstructions in time
to reverse his engine and apply the air brake, but the robbers
observing the movement fired at him from ambush and shot him dead. The
engine struck the logs and went off the track, into a ditch, and was
followed by one of the baggage cars, the others, with the passenger
train, remaining on the track. Several passengers were bruised but
none seriously hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after opening and
emptying the safe of the Express Messenger of its contents, rode off
on horseback. Among the passengers were thirty Chinese students en
route to Springfield. Mass.

Particulars or the Robbery.

Chicago, July 22. The Evening Journal's special from DesMoines to-day
gives the following account of the attack on the, train on the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad last night. From
Superintendent Royce, who was on the train, I get the particulars of
the robbery of the night express train on the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad last night: The train left Council Bluff at 5
o'clock, with four coaches and two sleepers, the rear sleeper being
filled with a company of

Aristocratic Chinese

on their way to New England colleges.  There were also two baggage
express cars, in which was the through California mail and express
matter, consisting in short of near two thousand dollars in the
express safe and three tons of baggage. When about 15 miles west of
this city, about 8:30, at a sharp curve on the road and an isolated
spot, with no house in several miles in any direction, the train
moving about twenty-five miles an hour, the engineer, John Rafferty,
suddenly saw one rail move from its place about sixty feet ahead of
the engine. He instantly

Reversed His Engine,

and applied the air brake, and while in the act of doing it, bullets
came pelting into the engine like hail. The engine ran into the bank
and turned over, throwing out the engineer, John Rafferty, and the
fireman, the former, falling on the latter, dead. It is supposed he
was

Killed by Concussion,

as no bullet wounds are found on his body.  The fireman escaped
unhurt. The train being very heavy, ran about one hundred feet and
stopped. The engine ran up into the bank and turned over, and the two
baggage cars doubled up and were badly smashed. As soon as the train
stopped, six large, athletic men,

Masked in Full Ku-Klux Style,

appeared at the express car, in which were the Conductor, Wm. Smith,
Superintendent Royce, the Express Messenger, John Burgess, and three
other persons, and commenced

Firing Rapidly Into tho Car,

yelling "Get out of there, d--n ye, get out of there." Two bullets
passed through the clothes of the conductor, and grazed the skull of
the baggage master, and one, the side of the head of the express
messenger.  The inmates jumped out, when they were ordered to the rear
under cover of half a dozen navy revolvers. Two of the robbers marched
up and down the train, threatening to shoot any person who showed
their head on the train, saying "Get down out o' sight, d--n ye, or we
will shoot you." The robbers then took about two thousand dollars from
the express safe, cut open the mail sacks, but took no letters; and
mounted each a horse and rode off across the prairie in a
southeasterly direction, the whole being done in less than ten
minutes.  They fortunately did not cut the telegraph wires, and
Superintendent Royce at once hastened to the nearest station and

Telegraphed in all Directions.

Engines and a posse of men were sent out from Council Bluffs, the
Burlington and other roads, to intercept the robbers in a southerly
direction. Their dress and voice indicated they were regular
bushwhackers, and they evidently intended to get the usual valuable
express matter by this route on Monday, but which went through on an
extra train on Sunday night. The robbers during the day stole a
spike-bar and hammer from a hand car house at the nearest
station. They drew the spikes from one end of the rail and fastened a
small cord to the end of the rail and secreted themselves several rods
away and as the engine approached, they

Pulled the Rail Out of Place.

The promptness of the engineer and the air brakes saved the passengers
from harm, as not one was injured. A track was at once laid around the
wrecked cars and the train resumed its trip, arriving here at 7:30
this morning, bringing the dead body of the engineer, who resided
here, and who leaves a wife and three children.

Rumors and Conjectures.

Des Moines, Iowa, July 22 A thousand conjectures are current here in
regard to the persons who robbed the train on the Rock Island Railroad
last night. The most probable one is that the robbery was committed by
persons living near where the robbery took place. The valise in which
they carried off the money from the Express Company's safe was found
five miles south of the wrecked train to-day. Vigilant parties are
scouring Southwest Iowa, and it is confidently believed the robbers
will be caught if they remain within the State.  A telegram received
here late to-night, says they crossed B. and M. R. R. last night at
midnight.

Testimony of the Conductor.

Wm. A. Smith, conductor or the fated train, testified to-day at the
Coroner's inquest on the body of John Rafferty, the engineer, that the
train was wrecked two and a half or three miles west of Adair Station,
and 600 or 700 feet east of Turkey creek bridge. I was in the smoking
car near the front end. I was thrown under a seat in front of me;
don't remember which side of the car I got out on; know I reached the
engine on the north side; I went forward to see who was hurt; the
first person I met was one of the masked men, near the baggage car
door, who pointed a revolver in each hand toward me, and told me to
get back, firing at me at the same time. I backed down as far as the
sleeping coach, before I felt I was out of his way; there I met Dennis
Foley, the fireman; ha says, "Billy, Jack is dead." Passengers were in
a hubbub, and the women and children were crying, and I told tho
passengers that I thought the masked men were trying to rob the baggage
car, and tried to borrow a revolver but failed.  I could still see a
man from where I was, and another walking up and down on the opposite
side of the train; think he was firing at me also; some of the
passengers asked me to get into the train, as the men were firing at
me, and I would be the cause of some of them being killed. I then went
into the sleeping car at the rear, still trying to get a revolver,
urging passengers to keep quiet as these men were robbing the baggage
car. I went out of the ladies car up to the bank and hence to the
engine. Two balls passed through my clothing while I was on the bank;
the shots came from the south side of the train; did not see the man
on the north side then; did not see or hear anything more of the
masked men. After the passengers got quiet I went forward to
investigate the cause of the wreck. At the hind truck of the smoking
car I found that the fish plate had been removed from the rail on the
north side, disconnecting a rail. At both ends a rope and strap were
tied in the bolt holes of the disconnected rail, at the west end, and
a rope passed under the south rail across the ditch and up into the
bank. A piece of rope was also found on the bank which seemed to have
been broken from the other; it was a new rope, the size of a common
bed cord. The west end of the loose rail, when I saw it, was only a
few inches from the south rail; hind trucks on smoking car were still
on the track. We had been running eighteen or twenty mile an hour.

The Effect on the Passengers.

Passengers on the train report the scene was terrible and baffle
description. When the crash came all were thrown forward, some
entirely off their seats. Then came the recoil, and immediately after
they heard firing, but supposed it came from the wreck. Many of the
men jumped from the cars and started to go forward, and were ordered
back by the robbers, who continued firing and enforced their commands
by terrible oaths and threats.  Back they went with a rush and in tho
cars found the women and children half crazed with fright, shrieking,
crying and fainting, imploring the men to protect them, and
exclaiming,

"My God, We Shall be Killed."

The stoutest hearts quailed and felt they were at the mercy of
desperadoes. Altogether it was a scene unprecedented in the history of
railroading in this country, as never before has so

Reckless and Daring a Scheme

been carried to completion. All Western Iowa is in a fever of
excitement. Farmers for miles around are leaving the harvest fields
with their families, visiting the scene of the robbery. The engine and
baggage cars remain as they were last night, the former badly
wrecked. Superintendent Royce estimates the loss sustained by the
company at about $3,000. Gov. Carpenter

Issued a Proclamation,

offering a reward of $500 for the arrest of
each person engaged in the robbery.

