Name: 1873-07-30-knoxville_chronicle.txt
Date: 1873-07-30
Paper: Knoxville weekly chronicle.
Paperkey: knoxville_chronicle
Page: 7
City: knoxville
State: TN tennessee
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85033438/1873-07-30/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

Daring Robbery of a Railroad Train.

Des Moines, Iowa, July 22. An extraordinary and daring robbery on a
railroad train was committed last night, four miles west of Adair, on
the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad. At this point, there is
a sharp curve in the road, and here the robbers placed heavy timbers
across the track, to throw the eastern-bound passenger train off. The
engineer, John Rafferty, saw the obstructions in time to reverse the
engine and apply the air break, but the robbers, observing the
movement, fired at him from an ambush, shooting him dead.  The engine
struck the logs and went off the track into the ditch, and was
followed by one of the baggage cars, the others remaining on the
track. Several of the passengers were bruised, but none were seriously
hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after opening and emptying the
safe of the express messenger of its contents, rode off on horseback.

Among the passengers on the train were thirty Chinese students, en
route to Springfield, Mass.

More About the Iowa Railroad Robbery

Chicago, July 22. A special dispatch from Des Moines, gives the
following account of the attack on the train of the Chicago, Rock
Island Pacific Railroad last night. The train left Council Bluffs at
five o'clock with four coaches, two sleeping coaches in the rear. The
sleepers being filled with a company of aristocratic Chinese on their
way to New England colleges. There were also two baggage express cars
in which was the through California mail and Express matter containing
nearly $2000 in the safe, and three tons of bullion. When about
sixty-five miles west of Des Moines, about 8:30 o'clock, at a sharp
curve on the road in an isolated spot, with no house for several miles
in any direction, the train was going about twenty-five miles an hour,
John Rafferty saw one rail suddenly moved from its place about
sixty-feet ahead of the engine.  He instantly reversed the engine and
applied the air breaks, when in the act the pellets came pelting into
the engine, like hail. The engine ran into the bank and turning over
and throwing out the engineer John Rafferty, and the fireman, the
former falling on the latter dead.

It is supposed that Rafferty was killed by concussion as no bullet
wound was found on his body. The fireman escaped unhurt. The train
being very heavy ran about one hundred feet and stopped. The baggage
cars doubled and were badly smashed. As soon as the train stopped
several large athletic men masked in full kuklux style appeared at the
express car in which were Conductor Wm. Smith, Supt. Royce, Express
Messenger, Jno.  Burgess and three other persons, and commenced firing
rapidly into the car yelling, "get out of there dam ye, get out of
there."  Two bullets passed through the clothes of the conductor, one
grazed the skull of the baggage master and one side of the head of the
express messenger. The inmates Jumped out to the rear under cover of a
half dozen navy revolvers. Two of the robbers marched up and down the
train threatening to shoot any person who showed their head,
saying. "get down out of sight dam ye or we will shoot you." The
robbers then took about two thousand dollars from the express safe,
cut open the mail sacks but took no letters. They then mounted their
horses and rode off across the prairie in a southerly direction, the
whole thing being done In less than ten minutes.

Fortunately they did not cut the telegraph wires, and Superintendent
Royce at once hastened to the nearest railroad station and telegraphed
in all directions.  Engines and posses were sent out from Council
Bluffs on the Burlington and other roads, to intercept the
robbers. Their dress and voices indicated that they were regular
bushwhackers. They evidently intended to get the usual valuable
express matter which passes over this route on Mondays, but which went
through on an extra train on Sunday night. The robbers, during the
day, stole a spike bar and hammer from the car house at the station.
They drew the spikes from one end of a rail, and secreted themselves
several rods away. As the engine approached, they pulled the rail out
of place. The promptness of the engineer in reversing the engine and
putting on the air breaks saved the passengers from harm, not one
being injured. The track was at once laid around the wrecked cars, and
the train resumed its trip, arriving here at 7:30 o'clock this
morning, and bringing the dead body of the engineer, who resided here,
and who leaves a wife and three children.

A dispatch from St. Joseph, Mo., says that the Iowa train robbers are
believed to have been traced into Modoway county.  Mo., and it is
thought they will be captured.
