Name: 1872-12-11-hawaiian_gazette.txt
Date: 1872-12-11
Paper: The Hawaiian gazette.
Paperkey: hawaiian_gazette
Page: 4
City: honolulu
State: HI hawaii
Title: YUNG WING---HEAD OF THE CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83025121/1872-12-11/ed-1/?sp=4
Author: 
---
YUNG WING---HEAD OF THE CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION.---

Some years since a devoted missionary ---whose interpretation of
Christianity led him to believe that it was a system of influence
designed by its great Author, and destined by Him to educate the whole
human race into a perfect manhood--- went to China, picked up some
poor boys around Macao, gathered them into a school, and began
teaching them the rudiments of English and Chinese. He fed his soul on
faith and patience, while his body took its meagre
chances. Subsequently he went to Hong Kong, where he established a
school, naming it after the sleeping Morrison, as a just tribute to a
self-denying life---the chronicler of noble actions. A number of
pupils from Macao followed their enthusiastic teacher, and still
availed themselves of bis valuable instruction. After the lapse of
years he returned to America, bringing with him three of the most
promising of his early pupils, whom he placed in an academy at Monson,
Mass., where they were prepared for college, which they entered in
good time, at New Haven, Conn. All finished their course of study
with, distinction, and graduated with high honors. One of
them---Wong--- went to Edinburg, Scotland, and finished a thorough
medical course; returned to Canton, where he soon established himself
in the foremost rank of his profession, and received the patronage of
all distinguished natives and foreigners.

Yung Wing took the prize as essayist in English composition, and was
recognized as a sort of private arsenal of facts and figures. He
returned to China, and, in process of time, came to the notice of
prominent Chinese officials, who detected the magnificent genius of
the man; saw how wonderfully fertile he was in expedients; observed
the harmony, order, originality of his habit of thought; discovered
his self-disciplined fervor, calm intensity and mathematical accurasy
of detail; detected his marvelous intellectual vitality, his undaunted
purpose and unconquerable courage---all of which qualifications
eminently fitted him for national work. He was selected by the
Government and commissioned to visit England and America, to inspect
internal improvements, take notes on commerce, and acquaint himself
with manufactures. All this was done in a manner so satisfactory that
he was sent back a second time, to purchase machinery and appliances
for the setting up of mills, shops and manufactories.

But all this time his fertile brain was evolving a scheme, vast in its
conceptions, stupendous in its intent, immeasurable in its grasp, and
inconceivable in its results. The Guardian Chinese Educational Mission
was the child of his own conception, and he has matured it to its
present aspect. It was at his instance that the Chinese Government set
apart $100,000 to educate one hundred and fifty children--- the
brightest and most promising in the Empire, without regard to
blood---in all the branches of a complete English education; while, at
the same time, a competent Chinese tutor keeps them up to the highest
standard in their own national studies.  They are to be sent in
installments of thirty each year for five consecutive years, to remain
at school for fifteen years, and to be distributed through our
prominent educational institutions.

Yung Wing is a man of the rarest culture and attainments; fully posted
on all philosophical, scientific and ethical subjects; is conversant
with all current topics of interest; familiar with the history of all
prominent men of note in the political and literary history of the
world, and perfectly at home with the eminent savants of the day. He
now purposes to devote himself to the study of jurisprudence and the
science of government. He is already a mandarin of the blue
button---that is, of the third rank.
