Name: 1872-10-18-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1872-10-18
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 5
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Title: THE CHINESE STUDENTS. The Rules for Their Instruction.
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1872-10-18/ed-1/?sp=5
Author: 
---
THE CHINESE STUDENTS.

The Rules for Their Instruction.

The 30 Chinese students who recently arrived in this country have all
been located in fifteen places in this state and Connecticut, only two
being placed in any one town. Wilbraham, Monson and Oakham, besides
this city, are the places in Massachusetts, and Hartford, Suffield,
Fair Haven, West Haven. Northford, Durham, Stratford, Bridgeport,
Darien, Washington and Granby those in Connecticut. The commissioners
are visiting those in the latter state this week.  Secretary Northrop,
at the request of Yung Wing, has issued the following instructions
(which will be translated into Chinese) to those who have charge of
these students:—

The new Chinese educational mission awakens a profound interest, as a
prophecy of great progress to the oldest and largest nation on the
globe. America congratulates China on the inauguration of this noble
work and gives a cordial welcome to these ambitious and earnest
students. Every possible effort should be employed to make this
experiment a success. If wisely managed at the outset, it will expand
into broad agencies and vast results. That nothing may be omitted to
give efficiency to this comprehensive and liberal scheme, the
following suggestions are submitted for your careful consideration:---

I. These students should have regular school hours for study and
recitation, as well as for exercise and recreation. So far they seem
to be exemplary, cheerful, studious and promising, but their youth
necessitates a parental supervision and watchful control---a kind but
firm and steady government. While their habits of prompt and cheerful
obedience must be continued, they should be thrown upon their own
resources and trained to self-reliance, self-denial, self-command,
energy and perseverance, and every manly virtue. The Chinese justly
despise vacillation and effeminacy. They scorn sloth, love labor, and
practice industry and economy.  Resisting all temptations to
indolence, prodigality, fickleness or irresolution, these boys should
emulate that patience and persistence and frugality, which are the
pride and practice of the true Chinaman.

II. A regular record should be kept of the branches daily pursued, the
progress made, the deportment of each, and any aptitude shown for
special studies. If any student should so underrate his privileges as
to become irregular in his habits or negligent in his studies, he
should be promptly reported to the commissioners.

III. As these students are preparing for positions of responsibility
at home, it is important that they should continue the study of their
own language and literature. Hence at least one hour a day will be set
apart for each student to devote to the Chinese studies prescribed for
him for a period of three months. Thus the knowledge and use of their
vernacular will be kept up and enlarged.

IV. Filial piety and patriotism are to be inculcated. Love of country
and an ambition to become the exponents of our science and culture,
and thus the benefactors of their own land, should be an incentive and
inspiration to them as soon as they can be led to appreciate their
privileges and responsibilities.

V. They should be early instructed in the laws of health, especially
as to neatness and bathing, precautions against “colds” in the sudden
changes of our climate, protecting the feet and the person, guarding
against currents of air or a sudden chill after violent exercise and
when in perspiration.

VI. For the present, reading, spelling, drawing and writing, and
especially writing simple English sentences, should be their prominent
exercises. Geography and arithmetic, and particularly rapid addition
and “mental combinations,” will soon follow.  The commissioners will
frequently visit and inspect the boys, and the continuance of the boys
in each locality will depend upon their progress and improvement.

All questions and letters from those who have charge of these students
should be hereafter addressed to Mr Yung Wing, Springfield, Mass.
