Name: 1872-11-15-worchester_spy.txt
Date: 1872-11-15
Paper: Worcester daily spy
Paperkey: worchester_spy
Page: 2
City: worcester
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83021205/1872-11-15/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

Chan Laisun.—The annual catalogue of Hamilton college for 1847-8
carried the name of “Chan Laisun, Singapore, Asia, 14 D. H.” He had
been sent to this country to be educated for missionary labor among
the Chinese, by Dr. S.  Wells Williams, a native of Utica and a
brother of Robert S. Williams of the Oneida bank, who was then in the
service of the American board.  Chan Laisun was then a Chinese lad of
about eighteen years. He was quick witted, exceedingly well mannered,
fond of society, and apparently well pleased with his surroundings and
studies in an American college. He was socially attractive, and always
a favorite in the cultivated circles of Utica and Clinton. At that
time much attention was given to singing, and the voice of Chan Laisun
was secured for a picked glee club, of which Dr. Thomas S. Hastings of
New York, President David H. Cochran of Brooklyn, Dr. John W. Sykes of
Pittsburgh, and Chas. P. Fitch of Auburn, were members.  Chan Laisun
made a special study of the Greek testament, shaping his course so as
to gain the best preparation for his future work. There was genuine
sorrow with all his college companions when he was suddenly called to
exchange the position of a student to that of a teacher. Returning to
China in 1864, he labored for a time as a native helper of the mission
of the American board at Canton.

In 1850 he was married to a Chinese lady who had been educated by Miss
Aldersey. Afterward he was employed by foreign merchants at Shanghai,
Foochow and Bangkok. In 1858 he was appointed principal of an English
school established at Foochow by high Chinese officials. He was so
successful in this position that when the Chinese government decided
to send one hundred and twenty lads to this country, to be educated
and Americanized, he was appointed one of the imperial commissioners
of education to go with them. These boys are to be sent in annual
installments of thirty. The first installment have already been
distributed in Massachusetts and Connecticut. They are placed in
suitable Christian families, and are to remain fifteen years, if so
much time is found necessary for a thorough course of academic,
collegiate and professional study. The present movement is regarded as
an experiment. If wisely conducted and successful, it will expand into
permanent agencies and vast results. That the Chinese government
should have devoted millions of dollars to this single educational
project, is one of those startling movements which remind us that
remote nations are awaking to a new and better life.

After an absence of twenty-five years Mr. Laisun returns to America
and Hamilton college with the rank of a second mandarin. He is now in
Clinton, as the guest of Professor North, the only member of the
present faculty who was connected with it when Mr. Laisun was a
sophomore. He has decided to make his home at Springfield, Mass and
last Sunday he and his wife united with the South Congregational
church of that place. He has brought with him to America his three
sons and three daughters.  Utica Herald, Nov. 11th.
