Name: 1879-03-01-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1879-03-01
Paper: New-York tribune
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 4
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1879-03-01/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

EDUCATING THE CHINESE.

About thirty years ago three strange-looking dusky boys mingled as
students with the American-born youths at the preparatory school in
Munson, Mass. They wore long hair twisted into pigtails, oddly shaped
shoes, coats that looked like an article of feminine apparel, spoke
very little English, chattered with amusing volubility to each other
and looked out into a strange world with intense and manifest
curiosity through their almond-shaped eyes. For years they were the
jest of the school. They lived by themselves in a house quite distant
from the school building, usually came and wend together, and made no
effort to force their companionship upon any one, but were known from
the first as singularly attentive and zealous students.  Strange
stories went about as to their mode of living, their diet and their
habits, and it is not too much to say that a species of superstitious
horror surrounded them in the minds of many of the villagers. This
wore off in due time, when it was found that the three Chinese boys
were not only holding their own remarkably well in competition as
students with lads of American training, but were indeed surpassing
most of them.  They left the school with many warm friends, with
honorable records, and with the very hearty good wishes of the
American missionaries at whose instance they had been brought to this
country for education.

One went to Yale College, one to Harvard, and one to Edinburgh
University, Scotland.  Each in his place became a favorite in his class
and a scholar of unusual merit. Ah Shun graduated with high honor at
Edinburgh, and with special honor for excellence in English
composition. Ah Fun graduated with high honor at Harvard, and with
special honor for excellence in English composition.  Yung Wing
graduated at Yale with high honor, and with, we believe, the highest
honor in his class for English composition.  His history is somewhat
familiar. To him, in some degree, it is probable that the Burlingame
Treaty was due. Returning to China after graduation, and having the
acquaintance of Minister Burlingame, Yung Wing, by reason of his rank
in the Chinese Empire, was useful in bringing about cordial
intercourse between the American Minister and the Chinese officials of
high rank.  It had been for years the dream of his life to do
something toward opening China to the United States and the Western
civilization.  How well he has succeeded, those best know who are
acquainted with the work of the College for the education of Chinese
young men, now established at Hartford, Conn, and under the charge of
Yung Wing, as the representative of the Chinese Government in that work.

It has been said by President Woolsey that they who go back to China
from this country with thorough education in the American language,
institutions and sciences, take with them something of incalculable
power.  But the comparatively few who return fortified with a high
education, probably have but little influence, in the aggregate,
compared with the thousands of lower grade who come to this county as
laborers, remain for a term of years acquiring familiarity with
American institutions and methods by personal experience, and then
return to China with their earnings. Of these not a few, but probably
the majority, are persons of the middle class in China, and it is not
possible to believe that after returning they do not exercise a great
influence in forming the opinion of those with whom they there
associate, in respect to the character and merits of our Western
civilization.

It is something for those to consider who are devoting means and noble
efforts, and life itself, to the extension of Christian influences
throughout the world, whether it is well by an act of bad faith on the
part of the United States to arrest so potent an influence in the
education and Christianization of the Chinese race,

