Name: 1879-11-29-southern_christian.txt
Date: 1879-11-29
Paper: Southern Christian advocate
Paperkey: southern_christian
Page: 1
City: 
State: GA georgia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn87065702/1879-11-29/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

One Christian Woman's Influence.

When I was a boy I need often to hear my mother speak of Mrs. Phebe
Brown, who, at the time she knew her, lived in Monson, Massachusetts.
Many particulars, in the admiring mention made of her in my hearing at
home, were not treasured up in memory, for I was too young then to
think how interesting they might become to me by-and-by.

1 have only the general recollection that the lady whom my mother
esteemed so much was eminent in humble domestic duties and fidelites,
rather than for any brilliancy of person or society gifts, and richer
in Christian faith and devotion than in the goods of the world. More
clearly than anything else, I remember the tribute paid to her
remarkable piety.  She was a praying Christian, a toiling Christian,
an everyday Christian.  Her children were early trained in the fear of
God, and one of them, Samuel, grew up a boy of promise—a man in whom
the promise was nobly fulfilled. I vaguely remember the description of
him as a tall young man, who wore glasses and sung in the
choir—perhaps as leader, for he had a musical gift for composing as
well as executing; and he had the poetical gift too, I think.

At least it seems that the young man could claim his talent by fair
inheritance, for his good mother, all unsuspected of being a poet,
wrote sweet verses—merely to comfort her own heart by expression, and
with no thought of fame.

Mrs. Brown loved the missionary work from the first; and the time came
for her to make her best contribution to it—and the contribution was
this same son, Samuel. Ordained to the gospel ministry, he went to
China, where between thirty and forty years ago be was known as the
principle of the Morrison School, in Hong Kong. Among his pupils were
three bright boys in whom he took a peculiar interest, and who became
strongly attached to him. Their names were Wong Fun, Wong Shin, and
Yung Wing. He conceived tbe idea of bringing them, to America to be
educated, and in time he was enabled to carry out his plan. It was far
in the eighteen-forties when the lads arrived in this country. Monson
Academy was their first American school, and their boarding-place was
the home of Mr. Brown's mother. Mr. Brown returned to his missionary
labors, ultimately devoting himself to the Japan field. The life and
work of Rev. S.B. Brown, D.D., of Yokohama, translator of the Bible
into Japanese, is now a chapter of church history.

The young Chinese students were rapid learners, and took kindly to
their new surroundings. They were observing lads, and the lovely
Christian example of the lady who ministered to their wants was not
lost upon them. It was all the reinforcement her words needed when she
felt called upon to speak to them on religious subjects. And so it
came to pass that all three of the boys became followers of Christ,
through impressions received while in the home of Mrs. Phebe Brown.

Wong Shin's health failed, and he was obliged to return to his native
land without completing his education.  But he had acquired enough to
fit him for great usefulness. He became a printer, serving for years
with the London Mission press at Hong Kong, then came to America as
interpreter for the Chinese Embassy, and he is now in Hartford, in the
employ of the Chinese Educational Commission—a worthy Christian man,
and a member of the Asylum Hill Congregational Church.

Yong Fung, after graduating at Monson Academy, went to Edinburgh to
study medicine. From Scotland, he returned to China and located in
Canton, where he became eminent in his profession. He died in October,
1878, truly lamented as "the beloved physician.”

Yung Wing was a student at Yale College at the same time with myself,
and I saw him every day; though, in a different class, I knew nothing
of his history. He stood high as a scholar, and distanced the majority
of his American classmates in prizes and honors. After receiving his
degree 1854, he went back to China, studied law, and subsequently
engaged in commercial pursuits and also as clerk in the diplomatic
service. But from the time he left the shores of this western world
his heart was set on a great and difficult scheme.  He had himself
tasted the sweets of a civilized and Christian culture, and he
determined to interest his government in some system of thorough
American education for selected Chinese boys.  For sixteen years he
labored at his herculean task before he saw anything like assured
success. His high abilities had been recognized, and had secured for
him a position of honor and responsibility under the government that
put him in intimate relations with viceroys and provincial governors
and influential Chinese statesmen. But these men were too cautious and
politic to venture any effort that would directly promote his scheme.

It was not till the Tien-tsin massacre made a case for international
settlement, and Yung Wing’s assistance became indispensable, that the
matter he had urged so long forced itself upon the attention of the
imperial authority itself. Foreign representatives necessarily took
part in the court of inquiry, and the Chinese officials saw and felt
the great advantage which a foreign education would give. The result
of this was the organization of the Educational Mission in 1871. One
of the two commissioners appointed was Yung Wing. He came to this
country soon after with his first company of Chinese boys. While
superintending their education he has been called to larger duties,
being now associate Minister of the Chinese Empire to the United
States, and a Mandarin of the second rank. He is a modest Christian
gentleman and Christian statesman.

His debt to the pious lady who taught him the faith of Jesus, as well
as his debt to her missionary son, is lovingly remembered in the name
of his boy, "Morrison Brown Wing."

And in the affectionate remembrance of her we all share, who still
sing at nightfall that sweetest of her hymns:

  "I love to steal awhile away
   From every cumb’ring care,
   And spend the hours of setting day
   In humble, grateful prayer."
       [Christian Weekly.
