Name: 1879-03-22-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1879-03-22
Paper: New-York tribune
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 2
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1879-03-22/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

CHINESE IMMIGRATION,

A MEMBER OF THE CHINESE EDUCATIONAL MISSION CONFIRMS DR. SPEER'S LETTER TO THE
TRIBUNE--—NINE-TENTHS OF THE IMMIGRATION FROM CANTON---THE SIX COMPANIES.

To the Editor of The Tribune..

Sir: The letter of the Rev. Dr. William Speer, dated at Washington,
Penn., March 5, 1879, and published in your issue of March 8, deserves
particular attention. The letter shows that the writer has a full
understanding of his subject. His conclusions regarding Chinese
immigration, and in particular regarding the administration of the
"Six Companies" at San Francisco, are so correct and yet so likely to
fail of universal acceptance, that I cannot refrain from writing you a
few lines in corroboration of them. I will confine my observations to
three points, viz.: (1) The extent of territory from which Chinese
immigrants come to this country; (2) the supposed danger of a "flood"
of Chinese; and (3) the Six Companies.

First—Having been born and brought up in the Province of Canton,
having lately spent several years in the United States, and having
observed the facts concerning the movements of my countrymen from the
very first, I do not hesitate to say that nine-tenths of the Chinese
who have come to this country have come from that province. The
remaining one-tenth are from the Province of Fookin. Probably there is
not a single person in the United States from any other part of China
than these two provinces. The only exception which is to be made to
this statement is in favor of certain of the Chinese Government
students who have been sent to this country for education, and certain
members of the present Chinese Embassy at Washington. And although the
Chinese Educational Mission was first established in Shanghai, in the
Province of Kiang Soo, where the students whom we have now were
selected, yet more than two-thirds of all the students there obtained
are Cantonese. It must be borne in mind that Shanghai is more than 800
miles from Canton, in a country practically destitute of railroads. The
Cantonese boys, in fact, were the only Chinese who were easily to be
obtained for the mission. The people of the other provinces of China
have always showed an unwillingness to go to foreign countries.

Second—From The San Francisco Oriental Chinese Newspaper I take the
following statistics concerning Chinese immigration and immigration at
that point for the years 1877 and 1878. The figures purport to have
been taken from the Custom House record. In 1877 the number imported
from Hong Kong was 7,249; the number exported to Hong Kong, Honolulu
and other countries was 8,731. In 1878 the corresponding importation
was 6,675, and the corresponding exportation was 7,857. These figures
may be taken to represent with substantial accuracy the entire
importation and the entire exportation of Chinese for the years
named. The number of Chinese in this country was thus diminished by
1,532 persons in 1877, and by 1,137 persons in 1878.  These results
are not symptomatic of a flood.

Third—Of the so-called Six Companies five belong severally and
respectively to five different parts of the Province of Canton. The
remaining one company belongs to China in general. The object of the
companies is to promote justice and fair dealing between the Chinese
immigrants.  The officers are regularly chosen once a year. They are
selected for their special capacity, and have fixed salaries. The
companies do not in any way oppress or enslave the immigrants. Nearly
all the Chinese who are in this country have come, as above stated,
from Hong Kong, which is a free British colony.

You will indulge me in these few lines concerning matters which are of
great interest to me, in common with other of my countrymen, and which
should be intelligently understood by voters and others in this
country. Kwong Ki Chin,

  Chinese Educational Mission, Hartford, Conn., March 13, 1879.
