Name: 1879-02-25-new_york_herald.txt
Date: 1879-02-25
Paper: The New York herald.
Paperkey: new_york_herald
Page: 3
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030313/1879-02-25/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE

Excitement Throughout the Country on the Anti-Immigration Bill.

CALIFORNIA DIVIDED

Clergymen and Legislators Petition the President to Veto the Measure.

YALE COLLEGE SPEAKS.

President Woolsey and Professor Williams "Go for" Seymour and Blaine.

San Francisco, Feb. 24, 1879.

The Metropolitan Baptist Church was densely crowded last night, and
the following was adopted by a unanimous rising vote and will be
telegraphed to the President:--

San Francisco, Feb. 24, 1879.
To H.B. Hayes, President of the United States:--

Two thousand Christian citizens, assembled for their ordinary service
in Metropolitan Temple last evening, by a rising vote petition you to
sign the bill restricting Chinese immigration as a measure vital to
our civil peace, our business prosperity and our Christian
civilization.

ANTI-CHINESE RESOLUTIONS.

The delegates to the Pacific Turnbezirk of the North American Turners'
Union, in convention assembled, to-day passed unanimously the
following resolution:

Resolved, That the thanks of this body are due to those
representatives and Senators who so nobly stood up and voted for the
anti-Chinese bill.

The Constitutional Convention to-day adopted this resolution:

Resolved, That the thanks of this Convention are hereby tendered to
the Congress of the United States for the triumphant passage of the
bill restricting the immigration of Chinese to this country, and that
the members of the Senate and the House of Representatives who
supported that vital measure merit and will receive the lasting
gratitude of the people of California.

ACTION OF THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE.

At a special meeting of the Chamber of Commerce this afternoon the
following resolutions were adopted and ordered to be telegraphed to
President Hayes:

Resolved, That the Chamber of Commerce of tho city of San Francisco,
as a commercial body, and understanding, as we necessarily do, the
scope, object and purport of the bill which has just passed Congress,
known as "The Bill to Restrict Chinese Immigration," and which bill is
to be or has been presented to the President for signature, earnestly,
dispassionately and deliberately recommend his approval of the bill in
the interests of American territory, American labor, American peace,
American commerce, American home philanthropy, American protection to
the most valued social interests of the Pacific coast, and on the
broad ground of wise and timely guarding of modern civilization and
Christianity against social contact with overwhelming numbers of
ancient and incorrigible social barbarisms upon American soil.  Our
language is concise. We mean it to be comprehensive to the last
degree, and when we recommend approval of the bill in the interest of
American labor we mean protect it from the descending grade toward
squalor and want, and when we refer to American peace we mean
protection from a war of races and the calamities that follow in the
train of race prejudices where no assimilation is possible and no
social sympathies exist in common. The judgment of the West on this
subject, which is overwhelming, should be regarded by the East as
conclusive. We are on the ground and know whereof we speak.
GEORGE C. PERKINS, President.
Morris Marcus, Secretary.

The question of calling a public mass meeting was referred to the
Mayor, with the request to act without delay. The San Francisco
Journal of Commerce, in an article favoring the restriction of Chinese
immigration, gives some carefully prepared statistics of the balance
of trade between China and the United States, showing that the total
imports and exports to and from China, as entered at the Custom House
in this city for 1877 and 1878 are as follows:---Exports, $35,926,812;
imports, $14,804,017. Of these exports represent coin and bullion. The
export trade, such as it is, is mainly in Chinese hands, while the
import trade, when we exclude goods used by our Chinese population, is
a mere bagatelle.

A CLERGYMAN'S PLEA

The Rev. Allan Carr, who has been visiting this State for the last
four months, in his farewell lecture at the First Baptist Church last
night, touched for the first time on the Chinese question. He said he
had made it a careful study, and he had no hesitation in saying that
the Chinese who are in this State have a perfect right to stay and be
protected, as any other people are, under the solemn rights of the
treaty. At the same time he was satisfied it would be better for the
country if they had never come or if they should go away. He thought
the President should sign the Anti-Chinese bill. If he did not the
people must wait patiently until laws are passed which will relieve
them of the presence of the Chinese.

METHODIST CLERGYMEN OF PHILADELPHIA WANT THE BILL VETOED.
Philadelphia, Feb. 24, 1879.

At a meeting of the ministers of the Methodist Episcopal Church, held
here to-day, an appeal to tho President of the United States was
adopted requesting him to veto the Chinese Immigration bill recently
passed by Congress. Similar resolutions were passed at a meeting of
the Baptist clergymen of this city this morning.

NEW JERSEY LEGISLATORS SEE THE EVIL THE ANTI-CHINESE BILL WILL WORK TO THE
UNITED STATES.
[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE HERALD.]
Trenton, Feb. 24. 1879.

In the Assembly to-night the following resolution, offered by
Mr. Vernon, republican, was defeated by a rote of 24 to 28:

Resolved, the Senate concurring. That the provisions of the bill
restricting Chinese immigration which has passed both houses of
Congress and has been submitted to the President for his
consideration, are at variance not only with the terms and spirit of
our treaty obligations, but with the principles of liberty, Justice
and humanity upon which our republican Institutions rest.

Resolved. That should this bill become a law it will threaten our
commercial relations with the vast empire of China, will invite
retaliation, and will violate the wise and Christian policy which has
uniformly characterized our government in its dealings with foreign
nations.

Resolved, That the Governor be requested to transmit a copy of these
resolutions to the President of the United States and to each of the
Senators and Representatives in Congress from New Jersey.

Both parties divided on the question. Deacon, a republican, and Dewit,
a democrat, opposed the resolution, and it was advocated by Vernon and
Robinson, republicans.

OPINIONS EXPRESSED BY EX-PRESIDENT WOOLSEY, OF YALE COLLEGE,
AND PROFESSOR WILLIAMS, THE CHINESE SCHOLAR---GOVERNOR SEYMOUR'S
ARGUMENT ANALYZED.
[From the New Haven Register, Feb. 23.]

A representative of this Journal visited ex-President Woolsey, one of
the foremost exponents of international law, to secure his views on
the Chinese question. The venerable scholar received the visitor
graciously, and began by speaking of the rights of Americans in China
under the treaty. "The United States," he said, "has consular
jurisdiction in China. All Americans are judged by the United States
consuls, and therefore tried by our own laws. This act is known as the
ex-territorial act. The moment the act restricting Chinese immigration
goes into effect, if it ever does, the Chinese government will
complain that the treaty is broken.  The ex-territorial act will then
be no longer of force.  The Chinese have been wanting to get rid of
this for some time; they have been chafing under it. Part of the
rights Americans have were granted in 1868 and part before. There was
a treaty in 1858 and there were also earlier treaties. Under these
Chinese were permitted to come and go as they chose; they were given
equal rights. If we should make any such regulation as is proposed in
regard to any other country, the country would retaliate and I think
the Chinese will. That moment the commercial relations between this
country and China must go. The other nations occupy a favorable
position in regard to China.  The Chinese are bound to respect their
citizens, but not so with Americans. This is the one idea in the whole
matter; there is very little else connected with it. I have no idea
that coolies, in any proper sense of that word, have ever been brought
to this country."

CONTRARY TO INTERNATIONAL LAW.

"Is the proposed anti-Chinese bill," asked the representative, "a
violation of international law and treaties?"

"1 think it is. It is contrary to the spirit of the treaty. The treaty
implies that there shall be no restriction upon the Chinese entering
into or going out of the country."

"Is not the large Chinese immigration to the Pacific slope a serious
danger to the Pacific States?"

"I think the question is one of honesty and public policy only. The
proposed bill is likely to drive out Chinese students that are
studying in this country.  There are a number of them in Massachusetts
and in this State. We do not care anything about the money they bring
us, but we had made an impression upon them and they take our customs
home with them. They are learning something of great importance. They
carry our arts and our religion home with them. It is not a hopeless
task to try to convert them. All the Chinese come by the way of the
Pacific States. They do not marry to any extent, and those who come
here supply the places of those who go home and then they go back to
China to die. The Coolie trade is absolutely forbidden by the
treaty. Some of the Congressmen have stated that the California
companies have been engaged in the coolie trade. I don't believe the
Six Companies have been doing anything of the kind. Dr. Williams,
however, can tell you much of interest about this point. He has been
in San Francisco and knows much concerning the whole question."

"Is it wise to permit such immigration in view of the facts that the
Chinese do not assimilate with the American people, but abide for a
time only and then return to China?" asked the reporter.

"I should say that their failure to assimilate would be one reason why
they do us the less harm.  They cannot be enfranchised unless the
government sees fit to enfranchise them. The franchise was expressly
exerted in the treaty. There are naturalization treaties between this
country and England and Germany and other countries, but none with
China."

"What is the true way to deal with the Chinese question? What
legislation or treaty changes, if any, would you suggest?"

"I do not know now what to suggest, but I should say that it might be
well first to have the Californians suffer a change of heart. The
question ought not to be made a political one."

The venerable ex-president, after alluding to some or the various
treaties between this country and China, said, in concluding the
interview, "I think that we will have to make terms with them."

PROFESSOR WILLIAMS GOES FOR HORATIO SEYMOUR.

A visit was made to Professor S. Wells Williams, professor of the
Chinese language and literature in Yale College. For twenty-one years,
up to 1876, he was secretary of the United States Legation in China.
For twelve years he resided in Pekin. He was in California when the
Chinese inquiry was made by Senator Morton's committee.  Mr. Williams
is surrounded at home with almost every kind of article made by the
Chinese. Even the parlor mat before the tete-a-tete in the parlor bore
cabalistic Chinese characters. After the object of the visit had been
stated the Professor was handed a copy of an interview with
ex-Governor Horatio Seymour, of New York. He glanced at the beginning,
read some of the sentences and expressed his disgust with them. He
read this:---

He thinks that the presence of the Chinese in the United States is an
unmixed evil. They are able to work for a fraction of a sum that will
support an American.

"A fraction." said the Professor contemptuously, "what is the fraction
of the wages of an American?"  He continued reading:---

The Chinese women who come over are almost all abandoned characters.

"That is not true." he said, and then read on, making no comments:---

It is by destroying the first great condition of life, the family,
that the Chinese are able to offer their services at ruinously low
prices. The thousand wants, desires, ambitions which are the outgrowth
of European civilization are not shared by those people of Asia. Ten
years ago. when Governor Seymour argued against the coming of the
Chinese, he was answered that there were only 20,000 of them in the
United States; that the number would never increase to any
considerable extent, and that he was simply fighting a shadow. Now
there are 150,000 of them. There would probably be three times that
number, but for the increasing opposition to their immigration. As it
is, they are here in sufficient numbers to threaten the prosperity of
millions of working men. They are used as a menace. Laborers on the
Pacific coast live in constant dread that they will be discharged and
their places given to the Chinese. This gives rise to riotous and
lawless demonstrations, which, while they are always to be condemned,
will continue to exist while the provoking cause remains.

CORRECTING THE OLD POLITICIAN.

The professor said that he used to go to school with Governor Seymour,
and he thought the article was written for political purposes.

The Chinese question of San Francisco is not European or American, but
Asiatic. Their people are alien to our institutions. Their religion,
their allegiance, their graveyards, their traditions, their ambitions
are all on the other side of the world

The Professor---That in moonshine.

Their presence here even in small numbers in dangerous.  But if the
gates were open wide they would come in a flood.  China is
overpopulous. It contains 400,000,000 inhabitants.  One-quarter of
them could be spared with positive advantage to those who remained
behind. But their coming would ruin this country and reduce it to the
level of Asia.

The Professor---China doesn't contain 400,000,000; it contains about
300,000,000. The area of the country in nearly as large as that of the
United States.

The Indian is an Indian still, clinging to his language, his habits
and tastes and resisting four centuries of European Influence. The
Mongolian will continue to be a Mongolian, and if we permit him to set
up his civilization against ours we shall compel a conflict sooner or
later.

The Professor---The Chinese are not Mongolians.  They are as different
from Mongolians as we are from Finlanders.

A QUESTION OF LABOR.

"Our gates have been open to the Chinese for twenty-five years. The
total emigration has been only about two hundred thousand. It is less
now than it was years ago. The treaty says nothing about
naturalization.  All the Chinese that have come here come from a
district not as large as Connecticut, the district of
Kwang-tung. Canton is the name of the city, but Kwang-tung is the name
of the province in which that city is situated. The Chinese will not
come here to stay, and will never come in large numbers. I myself
should not like to have them come in droves, but they will not. Last
year 4,000 more returned than came over during the year, and many of
the immigrants haven't the money to get home with. It is a mistake to
suppose that the Chinese immigrants that come here are of the lower
classes. They are of the middle classes, but the middle class is lower
there than in some other countries, for the levels of the heathen
countries are lower. The immigrants occupy a higher relative
position than the immigrants who have come from Great Britain. As to
the naturalization matter there is Yung Wing, he has been naturalized,
and Indians have been naturalized too. But the Chinese won't come;
they don't want to come and we don't want them. The question is simply
one of supply, of labor and wages. It is a difficult thing for tho
Chinese to learn our language. If they are old it is physically
impossible. Their dialect is against them.

"GOING FOR" SENATOR BLAINE ALSO,

"The employers in California prefer Chinamen because they don't go
away as quickly as other men and work cheaper. The housewives like
them for servants because they do not wish to go out much and don't
have many visitors. There are probably not more than one hundred
thousand of them in America to-day. If they had scattered, instead of
remaining in California, we wouldn't have heard much about them. The
immigrants lived inside the tropics and are not the offscourings of
the people as they have been called. No slaves have been brought
here. A coolie means a person who is bound out to a master and works
for a certain number of years under that master's direction. He can be
let to any one. No such persons are sent here; the California
companies have not violated the coolie provision of the treaty. Tho
Professor brought out a formidable looking public document containing
the report of Senator Morton's committee sent to San Francisco to
inquire concerning the Chinese business. If Senator Blaine had studied
this report, said the Professor, patting the volume, he wouldn't have
made the erroneous statements that he did in Congress.  The companies
haven't bought any coolies. The Chinese are the most industrious
classes I ever saw. They are never expatriated. The point that is made
about their going back is absurd.  If they return, of what danger in
their presence for the time being? If they return, why should any
provision be made for keeping them out of the country?

BAD EFFECT ON CHINESE STUDENTS.

"How will the proposed bill affect the Chinese students?" queried the
reporter.

"It will have a bad effect upon this matter of education, By the
Senate amendment they can come here in any numbers by getting the
certificate of some official that they are coming here for purposes of
education merely."

"Then, of course, the bill would not interfere with them?"

"Yes, they will go to other countries. They have begun in the line of
advancement and must continue.  Do you suppose that I would come here
if I were a Chinaman? The United States throws her doors open to all
nationalities- the African, the Persian and the Hindoo---and yet says
to the Chinese students:---'You cannot come here unless you have a
certificate!'"

"Although it is very true that the Chinese have made some
advancement," said the reporter, "haven't they been a long time at
it?"

"Yes; the Chinese Empire la 4,515 years old, but it has advanced, and
that is a great thing."

"Is it difficult to convert the Chinese to the Christian religion?"

"No, not very. It is true that only about 15,000 have been converted
to the Protestant religion, but the missionaries have only been in the
Kingdom forty years. There are 800,000 Roman Catholics, but the
missionaries have been at work 250 years. In New York, I am told,
there are 100 Chinamen who have Irish wives. This is an argument in
favor of the assimilation theory."

A MATTER AFFECTING AMERICAN HONOR

"But," said the Professor earnestly, "the whole matter should be put
to the public as a thing affecting our national honor. It is a very
humiliating thing, especially to those having relations with China, to
see the treaty abrogated without a conference.  The Chinese will
retaliate and our commerce will go. Our citizens will he deprived of
trial by our consuls and there will be trouble. The proposed bill in a
stain on our national honor.

"It is useless," continued the Professor, "to discuss the question in
its relation to labor in Eastern States. The North Adams shoe
enterprise was a failure, and if 1,000 of the Chinese could get to
this city to-day they could not get employment. They come to this
country to make money, nothing else--- the same as we go to
china. Some of them get rich by luck or accident, the same as other
men do; but a large number of them scarcely get a living. When they
become skilled they ask as much wages as any one else. The whole
excitement was created for political purposes. The hoodlums of San
Francisco who wouldn't work if work were offered them are enraged at
them because they oust some of their friends who are employed. The
Chinese are inoffensive people and will not fight unless attacked.
They will then use their bludgeons and pistols effectively. The
hoodlums vote, the Chinese cannot; therefore, the politicians seek to
war upon the Chinese for the sake of the hoodlum vote. The whole
question is one of labor, that is all. It would have been better for
the Chinese if they had had three ports of entry into California
instead of one. They would then have become more dispersed."

CHINESE AHEAD OF THE NEGROES.

The San Francisco correspondent of the Baltimore Sun (democratic),
under date of February 1, writing of the Chinese schools, says:---

Rev. Otis Gibson knows more of Chinese capacity for improvement than
any one else on this coast, except a few persons who have been
missionaries in China and who indorse his reports.  His mission is the
education of Chinese in San Francisco, with efforts to change the
complexion of their superstitions. We cannot improve on the moral laws
of Confucius. They are identical in China with ours in Christendom,
and they form the base of all religions; from the beginning there has
been no essential variation. The trunks only differ in form and
structure, and in the mythic story of who planted it, and when and
where and by what miracles the lowly believed that God directed the
planting. Otherwise the fruit of all is alike in moral nutriment,
adapted to the various peoples.

The reverend missionary wisely admits the merits of Confucius;
claiming that for this age and for this country our doctrine is better
adapted, and may be accepted without disparagement to Confucians.
This is the shortest and easiest way to win converts. A public
examination of Chinese scholars gave convincing proof of the capacity
of that race for intellectual advancement far beyond that of the
negroes. If being sharp at a bargain is any sign of wit Chinamen are
fully our peers. As a further test, they get perfect mastery of modern
machinery in less time than our own average apprentices.  Moreover,
all Chinamen are more reliable and quick at figures. They have a wee
decimal contrivance of balls, sliding on wires, that counts up in a
trice, and unerringly, fractional values, which our accountants cypher
out by primitive rules of painful complexity and oft repetition.
