Name: 1882-01-14-savannah_morning_news.txt
Date: 1882-01-14
Paper: Savannah morning news
Paperkey: savannah_morning_news
Page: 1
City: savannah
State: GA georgia
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015137/1882-01-14/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Beheaded Chinese Student—A Love Affair.
Hartford Times.

Another version of the shocking news of the beheading of Chow Chow
Kan, one of the young men who left this city with the other Chinese
students, five months ago, comes by way of New Haven. This later
report is doubtless the true one. The first one was that the student
was beheaded for the crime of killing his father. This later account,
which gives particulars, shows that the young man’s shocking fate was
not a consequence of any crime, but of something which the Chinese
authorities regarded as quite as great an offense—namely, he had
fallen in love, while in New Haven, with a young lady of that city,
and persisted in sending letters to her! For that persistence the poor
fellow was actually beheaded. What a government that Chinese
Government is. No wonder that even Yung Wing, here, is nervous and
apprehensive.

it seems there were two brothers—Chow Chow Yot and Chow Chow Kan—and
they were for a time members of the Hopkins grammar school in New
Haven. There Kan boarded in the family of Mr. Bestor, 59 Kensington
street, and soon fell desperately in love with a Miss Sherman, who
lived in that neighborhood. The American ladies were ever the objects
of the most unbounded admiration on the part of the Chinese who
resided in Hartford, and poor Kan proved to be no exception to the
rule. From Hartford, while studying here the science of electric
telegraphy, the unfortunate young Chinaman wrote frequently to the
object of his adoration, and also while on the way to San
Francisco. Sometimes he received replies. The young lady’s friends had
tried their best to break up the attachment, not deeming it a wise
one. He and his companions hoped to be returned to this country after
a short stay in China, knowing that officials who had considerable
influence with the highest authority in that country favored a
continuance of the American educational mission.  Hence Kan kept up
his letters, even after his arrival in China. But it turns out that
one of the principal reasons for the recall of the students was the
fear that by marrying American wives they would be so thoroughly
wedded to American institutions that the intentions of the government
in educating them would be frustrated. It was this apprehension, in
part, that made "old man Woo" (as some of the students called him),
Yung Wing’s successor at the Hartford educational school, such a
determined foe to the continuance of the establishment here.

Kan’s offense, however lightly regarded here, was a heinous crime in
the eyes of the Chinese authorities. It was resolved to make his
persistence in these forbidden love affairs the subject of a terrible
lesson to the other students. He may, or may not, have had a
trial. But of the fact that he was beheaded, there is, unfortunately,
no longer room for doubt. The execution took place at Hong Kong.

The New Haven Palladium says:

“There is in New Haven a young Chinese student who refused to obey the
order to return to China. He is an inmate of the family of the late
Dr. Bacon, and having been converted to Christianity, was informed by
Yung Wing, the Chinese Commissioner of Education, that his life would
be in peril if he returned. He is to study for the ministry.  One of
the late Dr. Bacon’s last labors was in arranging for the young man’s
education.”
