Name: 1882-01-26-benton_record.txt
Date: 1882-01-26
Paper: The Benton weekly record.
Paperkey: benton_record
Page: 4
City: fort benton
State: MT montana
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85053148/1882-01-26/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

BEHEADED FOR FALLING IN LOVE.

A Young Chinaman Suffers Death for Daring to Love an American Girl.

Among the Chinese students who came to this country to obtain an
education were two bright boys named Chin Chin Yatch and Chin Chin
Chan, who came to this city. They were brothers, and entered the
Hopkins Grammar School, where they made good progress in preparation
for Yale College. While in this city they boarded in the family of
Mr. Vester, No.  59 Kensington street. When the students in this
country were recalled by the orders of the Chinese Government last
May, the two brothers left for Hartford, where they learned the
telegraph business, and later on returned to China. During their
residence on Kensington street, Chan be came interested in a young
lady named Sherman living near by. This fancy was strongly opposed on
the part of Miss Sherman's friends, but Chan's attentions were
continued, and were only interrupted by the departure of the young
Celestial. The acquaintance was kept alive, however, and Chan has
corresponded with the lady ever since. The principal reason for
re-calling the Chinese Students was the fear on the part of the
authorities, that they were becoming thoroughly Americanized, and that
they would marry American wives.  They were here at Government
expense, the object being to have them return to their native country
with power to introduce American civilization. Advices received here
state that Chan's persistence in his devotion to Miss Sherman coming
to the knowledge of the Chinese authorities, the young man was
condemned to death, and, according to Chinese customs, was beheaded in
Hong Kong.

Another instance, showing the narrowness of the policy of the Chinese
Government, is the fact that a young Chinaman now living in the family
of the late Dr. Bacon, having become converted to Christianity, was
advised by the Chinese Commissioner at Hartford to remain in this
country, as his return to his native country would be the signal for
his death. He therefore remains in this country and will study for the
ministry. One of the latest labors of Dr. Bacon was in arranging for
the young man's education. --New Haven Register.
