Name: 1882-12-15-jamestown_alert.txt
Date: 1882-12-15
Paper: Jamestown weekly alert
Paperkey: jamestown_alert
Page: 2
City: jamestown
State: ND north dakota
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85042405/1882-12-15/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

MARRIAGE IN CHINA.

How a Student Returned From America Found a Wife.

From the Hartford (Conn.,) Courant.

The following is an extract from a letter received by a Hartford lady
from one of the returned Chinese students: "I went home to see my
relations the last of March. When I first reached home you can imagine
how glad my father and relatives were to see me looking so well and
robust. They all flocked around me and asked me many questions. My
little nephew, sent by his mother, came behind me and pulled my cue to
see if it were real or false. I am going to tell you something which
will surprise yon. When I first landed in Shanghai my father wrote to
me that while I was away a great many of my friends had offered their
daughters to be engaged to me, and that he had at last, without
consulting me, selected one for me from a mandarin.  You know it is a
custom here for the parents to contract marriages without consulting
the wishes of those who are to be united. On hearing my engagement I
tried to break it off, but without success, as the Chinese consider an
engagement of marriage the most sacred contract. If it is once made it
can never be broken. According to the Chinese custom the younger
brother cannot marry before the elder one, I have two younger brothers
who have to wait for me to marry before they can. Therefore I was
urged very strongly by my relatives to marry right away. I did not
like to displease my father by opposing his wishes, so I consented to
be united on the last of April. Of course it is not a love affair, but
I shall try to do my duty. A month after my marriage I came back here
to resume my studies. After studying four months ten of us have passed
the examination as midshipmen, and we are now waiting to go on board
the training ship, which has gone to Canton for repairs. The navy yard
is situated on the Foochow river.  The place has about 4,000
inhabitants, and has one principal street, each end resting on the
river foaming the shape of a horseshoe. We sometimes go to the Chinese
theater. It is very monotonous here, but everywhere cultivated, even
the top of the mountain. We often climb the mountain and ramble among
the rice-fields sometimes we go through a village, where we meet
village maidens wearing earrings measuring four or five inches
across. Another country girl dresses her hair with so many pins,
sticks, and toys that it protrudes about a foot and a half from her
head."
