Name: 1882-12-01-dallas_herald.txt
Date: 1882-12-01
Paper: The Dallas daily herald
Paperkey: dallas_herald
Page: 4
City: dallas
State: TX texas
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83025733/1882-12-01/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

A Chinese Student Accepts a Wife.

The following is an extract from a letter received by a Hartford lady
from one of the returned Chinese students: "I went home to see my
relations the last of March.  When I first reached home you can
imagine how glad my father and relatives were to see me looking so
well and robust.  They all flocked around me and asked me many
questions. My little nephew, sent by its mother, came behind me and
pulled my cue to see if it were real or false.  I am going to tell you
something which will surprise you. When I first landed in Shanghai my
father wrote to me that while I was away a great many of his friends
had offered their daughters to be engaged to me, and that he had at
last, without consulting me, selected one for me from a mandarin. You
know that it is a custom here for the parents to contract marriages
without consulting the wishes of those who are to be united. On
hearing of my engagement I tried to break it off but without success,
as the Chinese consider an engagement of marriage the most sacred
contract.  If it is once made it can never be broken.  According to
the Chinese custom the younger brother cannot marry before the elder
one. I have two younger brothers who have to wait for me to marry
before they can. Therefore I was urged very strongly by my relatives
to marry right away. I did not like to displease my father by opposing
his wishes, so I consented to be united on the last of April. Of
course it is not a love affair, but I shall try to do my duty. A month
alter my marriage I came back here to resume my studies. After
studying four months ten of us have passed the examination as
midshipmen, and we are now waiting to go on board the training ship,
which has gone to Canton for repairs. The navy yard is situated on the
Foochow river. The place has about 4,000 inhabitants, and has one
principal street, each end resting on the river, forming in shape a
horseshoe. We sometimes go to the Chinese theater. It is very
mountainous here, but is everywhere cultivated, even the top of the
mountain. We often climb the mountain and ramble among the
rice-fields; sometimes we go through a village, where we meet village
maidens wearing earrings measuring four or five inches across. Another
country girl dresses her hair with so many pins, sticks, and toys that
it protrudes about a foot and a half from her head.
