Name: 1882-05-11-chillicothe_crisis.txt
Date: 1882-05-11
Paper: Weekly Chillicothe crisis.
Paperkey: chillicothe_crisis
Page: 1
City: chillicothe
State: MO missouri
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn89066350/1882-05-11/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

COOLY LABOR.

What a Chinese Immigration Agent Says About It.

Cornelius Koopmanschap, a Chinese immigration agent, who has just
returned home from a six months' absence in China, conversed recently
with a San Francisco Chronicle reporter. He said: "I was in Hong Kong
at the time the news was received of the passage of the Chinese
restriction bill. It created intense excitement among the coolies, and
rendered them all very anxious to get to California before the law
went into effect. Before the intelligence came of the president's veto
I had left, hut I presume it caused jubilant emotions among the
Chinese.  It is the settled conviction of the Chinese that measures
will shortly be adopted to check immigration, and they are
correspondingly desirous of arriving here before that time. The fare
now is very low, only $30 and $35 by the opposition line of
steamships, this affording every facility to the cooly immigrant. It
is the custom of the Chinese to go home to pass their New Year, and so
when they return in the spring the list of arrivals is always
increased to the extent of five or six thousand. Between November 1
and April 1 all emigration from Canton to any part of the world was
suspended by order of the viceroy. I then wished to engage one
thousand cooly laborers for service on the sugar and coffee
plantations in Honolulu, Brazil, and other places, but could not
obtain them.

"While I was away I did engage about thirty-five hundred coolies, of
which two thousand were for California, one thousand for Oregon, and
the remainder for Brazil. The Chinese for California and Oregon are
engaged as laborers on the Southern and Northern Pacific, the
California and Oregon, and other railroads, under a contract for one
and two years at $25 to $30 per month. The Chinese sent to Brazil get
$10 per month and board, with a free passage and guaranteed employment
for three years. Many of the Chinese now coming here expect to be
employed on the Canadian Pacific road, where there is a brisk demand
for them.  Nearly all of the cooly laborers are procured, not in the
cities of China, but in a small, yet densely populated section called
Canton district, where the wages they receive for laboring in the rice
fields are $3 or $4 per month.  The Chinese officials are utterly
careless and indifferent as to the extent of emigration, for the
country is overcrowded, but tho coolies, of course, are only too glad
to get a chance to come to California for $25 or 30 per month.  Such
wages are very big in their eyes.  But there must be a surplus of
Chinese here now, and wages, I judge, are very likely to be
reduced. The corporations I have named would undoubtedly have
contracted for thousands in addition to the coolies already taken but
for the fact that it is far easier and cheaper to engage them here
directly than it is to lure them through an agent in China.

"Next fall a Chinese consul will be appointed for Brazil, and there
will be a great increase in the immigration to that country. The
Chinese eat too freely of pork, which 13 not particularly healthy in
this country, and kills many of them. After tho legislature passed the
bill prohibiting the employment of Chinese by corporations,
immigration almost ceased for a time, but was resumed with vigor as
soon as the law was declared to be unconstitutional by the supreme
court. Long Che Lak, a Chinese mandarin, was on the steamer with
me. He was very uncommunicative and reticent as to the political
significance of his business, so I can't tell you much about it. Still
I know that he is en route to Hartford and Washington, and will go
thence to London, and I suspect that he is on an official mission
relative to the Chinese students. Under the present condition of
affairs I expect to see an unusual influx of Chinese, and do not look
for any abatement in the tide of immigration until a restriction bill
is passed by congress. It is too bad; but what in the meantime can we
do to prevent it?"
