Name: 1882-05-15-morning_journal.txt
Date: 1882-05-15
Paper: Morning journal and courier.
Paperkey: morning_journal
Page: 2
City: new haven
State: CT connecticut
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015483/1882-05-15/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Recalled Chinese Students.

Their Heads Probably Still Connected with Their Bodies.

Hong Kong, China, April 8, 1882.
To the Editor of the Journal and Courier:

About the first of February last a report appeared in the New Haven
papers that young Chin Chan, one of the Yale students who had been
recalled to China by the home government, had been beheaded at Hong
Kong on account of his supposed engagement to an American lady
residing in New Haven. He had many friends during his stay in College,
and universal sympathy was excited by what seemed to be a very sad
fate. At the time that the notice of his death appeared, however,
there were some who were disposed to question the truth of the report,
prominent among whom was Prof. S. Wells Williams of Yale. One of the
circumstances that led to this was the fact that reports of a similar
character had come to New Haven before, and afterwards turned out to
be totally without foundation. It will be remembered that Lai Sun of
the class of '80 was sent home by the commission in 1878 and was
likewise said to have been executed. After some months another report
came that he had been pardoned and was interpreter to the imperial
court at Peking.  This was also doubtful. At the present time he is an
instructor in the "Torpedo School" of the Chinese navy near the port
of Peking.  Since my arrival here some ten days ago I have made
diligent inquiry to see if I could find out the truth with regard to
Chin Chan.  I regret that I have not as yet been able to ascertain
definitely what has become of him, but have received the following
information.  which will be of interest to many of his friends in New
Haven, as it gives strong hopes that he is still alive.

1st. It is impossible that any Chinese student could have been
beheaded in Hong Kong. This is an English possession and it could no
more have happened here than in London or New York. If it took place
at all it must have been on Chinese soil and in the capital of one of
the provinces.

2d. It is highly improbable---some say impossible---that such a thing
could have happened and none of the foreign residents have heard of
it. The number of Chinese students sent to America was not large and
most of them were known to the foreigners here.

3d. None of the foreign residents in China, so far as is known, put
any faith in the story, the only announcement of which was in a Hong
Kong paper as quoted from an American daily.

I make these statements on the authority of such gentlemen as
Rev. Dr. Hopper, the head of the Presbyterian mission in Canton,
Dr. Kerr, surgeon-in-chief to the American hospital, Gideon Nye, Esq.,
member of the Geographical Society, and others who have spent the
larger portion of their lives in China and whose opinion in a question
of this kind must have great weight. These gentlemen seem to think
that Chin Chan is very probably in the government employ somewhere in
the vicinity of Shanghai, but it may be difficult to find him, because
the names by which these students are known at home are sometimes
different from those by which they are known in America.

I leave in a day or two for Foo Choo and Shanghai and shall make
further inquiry at those places. S. C. Partridge.

P. S.---Since writing the above I have met Mr. F. E. Woodruff, Yale
'64, the imperial commissioner of customs. He pronounces the whole
thing a canard, and states quite positively that there is not a
particle of truth in it. He says that Chin Chan is probably
instructing in one of the schools of the northern
provinces. Mr. Woodruff has been seventeen years in the employ of the
Chinese government, is an official of very high standing, and
consequently knows whereof he speaks. S. C. P,
