Name: 1882-01-14-superior_times.txt
Date: 1882-01-14
Paper: The Superior times
Paperkey: superior_times
Page: 2
City: superior
State: WI wisconsin
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85040344/1882-01-14/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

CHINESE IMMIGRATION.

The last report of Consul Bee will allay somewhat the apprehensions of
those who saw in the Chinese immigration movement the beginning of a
human torrent that would lay waste the hopes and prospects of
workingmen and the smaller class of trades-people in America. The hue
and cry against "cheap Chinese labor" that rang out over the land has
subsided in a measure, and when thinking people ponder the figures of
last year's immigration the excitement will be wholly quieted. Consul
Bee estimates the total of arrivals at 17,767.  During the same period
8,178 Chinese returned to Asia, leaving a balance in favor of their
colony in San Francisco of 9,589. Of this number many were old
residents returning from a visit to their relatives in China. The
majority of the new arrivals were laborers, who had been hired to work
on the Southern Pacific and Oregon railroads. Latterly there has been
an active demand on the Pacific coast for Chinese labor, and there are
three agents in Hong Kong and Canton purchasing laborers and shipping
them here. Contracts can be readily made for Chinese laborers at $1.50
a day, whereas two years ago that class of workmen could be had for 90
cents a day, without board. Owing to the high rate of wages ruling on
the Pacific slope there has been no emigration of Chinese to the
eastern states, where the demand for cheap skilled labor has several
times been increased by strikes among cigar makers and others. A large
number of Chinese have sailed from San Francisco to Honolulu, but the
emigration in that direction is accounted for by the refusal of the
authorities at Hong Kong to clear ships for Honolulu. There are no
Chinese government students in this country at present. All Chinese
students who have been in American colleges have been recalled and
apportioned to the civil service of their own country. The Chinese
authorities seem to be satisfied with the experiment of sending their
young men abroad to learn the languages and arts of the white races,
for the system will soon be amplified, and another delegation of
students dispatched to the universities and factories of this county
and Europe.
