Name: 1882-05-16-morning_journal.txt
Date: 1882-05-16
Paper: Morning journal and courier.
Paperkey: morning_journal
Page: 4
City: new haven
State: CT connecticut
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015483/1882-05-16/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Young Celestials.

The Chinese Students---Letter from Tientsin.

The following from a private letter, written to a friend in this city
by one of the Chinese students who studied here and were recalled to
their country, will be found of interest:

Tientsin, China, March 11, 1882.

Of the students sixteen are sent to Foochoo, five are stationed in
Shanghai, of whom K. Tsan Yu is one, and the rest, except two or three
who left the government, and Wong Yew Biug, who died in Shanghai, went
to Tientsin. There we are placed in navy, torpedo, telegraph and
medical schools and customs. Chu Pan Pay, my brother, and Yung are "in
the telegraph; Lee Yan Phon and Wone Tsai Luieng in the navy school;
and Lea Yu Kim and myself in the medical school. The latter are in the
care of Dr. John K. Mackenzie, an English missionary doctor, who is
our teacher.

We are now studying materia medica chemistry, physiology and anatomy,
and see to the cases every other day. Beside these we have Chinese, in
which we make rapid progress.

By this you may judge that a greater part of the day is spent in
constant mental, and two or three hours for our physical exercise.
Fortunately we are under, or managed by, a foreigner who has the
entire charge of us.  and live in a semi-European way.

My brother and I are so near each other that we can see each other
often,---this is fortunate.

I will now contradict the report given in the New York Times, dated
Jan. 11th, concerning my brother and myself. Of course this news is
known to all the United States, and if I am now in New Haven would
like to investigate the matter. [The foregoing refers to the
"decapitation" story.]

I am sorry that my news is all exhausted except to tell you that we
are comfortably situated within the reach of all foreign
communications, by which we obtain the foreign news. Beside this, we
can attend Sunday services and entertainments given by the
missionaries. Please tell Pond and Trowbridge that we should like to
hear from them. I presume about this time Mr. Cushing (of Hopkins'
Grammar school, where number of the young men studied) has got my
letter, but I have not heard from him yet. Chong Chung Yot.
