Name: 1882-07-08-morning_journal.txt
Date: 1882-07-08
Paper: Morning journal and courier.
Paperkey: morning_journal
Page: 3
City: new haven
State: CT connecticut
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn82015483/1882-07-08/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Northrop Investigation.

Secretary Northrop, in his defense before the investigating committee
at Hartford on Thursday, read a long statement detailing his
connection with the board as its secretary.  Among other things he
said the board cordially approved of the teachers' institutes.  During
the years 1860, 69-70 his expenses were considerably over $500 a year,
and had he not received railroad passes they would have bean much
greater. He claimed that his trips to Europe in 1872 and 1877 were
authorized by the board, and in view of what he learned while in
Europe he is confident that he never served Connecticut better than
when abroad. Except when in Europe he has given an average of over 150
lectures and visited more than 200 schools a year.  Prior to going to
Europe he gave on an average 200 lectures a year in this State. He
felt that he was overworked, and, as his duties occupied nearly all
the time, the alternative was to do less public work or employ
assistance. It was desirable to have this assistant directly under the
secretary's eye. He was not paid anything for taking care of the
Chinese students in this country, but the Japanese government made him
a present for his offices in behalf of the two Japanese young women
who came under his charge. The Board and Governor Bigelow approved and
commended his lectures on village improvement and tree planting.  He
did not know the amount of the bonuses received by Mr. Baird from a
Hartford man publisher until it was revealed by this
investigation. When he learned that Baird had taken commissions he
reprimanded him. Baird was retained in office by the board and holds
it during its pleasure. The secretary is not responsible for his
retention.  He denied having personal reasons for advertising Hartford
and New Haven book firms in his report. In reply to Senator Gunn's
questions concerning his reported visitation of fifty schools during
the last year Professor Northrop said that he enumerated the schools
by the number of teachers employed. Fifteen of the "schools" were
found to be fifteen teachers evenly divided between Norwalk,
Middletown and New London, and engaged in three schools. Clerk Baird's
system of conducting the clerical work of the office was investigated,
but nothing new was learned.

At the investigation yesterday further questioning of Mr. Northrop
took place. Senator Gunn submitted two letters written by Mr. Northrop
to Henry H. Peck, bookseller of New Haven, to which Mr. Peck replied
that he was willing to have his name inserted in the annual report as
one of the two firms willing to sell books at 25 per cent discount.
To the letter Mr. Northrop replied on March 10, and said that it was
only due to an accidental circumstance that Mr. Judd had been asked to
give the discount and not Mr.  Peck.

Mr. Gunn---What was the accidental circumstance

Mr. Northrop---Mr. Bobbins, chairman of the House Committee on
Education, said that he thought Mr. Judd would be a good man to
furnish the books, and for that reason I applied to him. Another
reason for applying to Mr. Judd was because Mr. Peck supplied the
Morgan school at Clinton with books and I thought it no more than fair
that Mr. Judd should have the other trade to equalize matters.
