Name: 1882-02-01-wellington_enterprise.txt
Date: 1882-02-01
Paper: The Wellington enterprise
Paperkey: wellington_enterprise
Page: 2
City: wellington
State: OH ohio
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84028271/1882-02-01/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

Chinese Immigration.

According to the official estimate of the Chinese Consul the number of
Chinese immigrants to California this year has been comparatively
small.  Consul Bee estimates the total of arrival at 17,767.  During
the same period 8,178 Chinese returned to Asia, leaving a balance in
favor of their colony in San Francisco of 9,589. Of this number many
were old residents returning from a visit to their relatives in
China. The majority of the new arrivals were laborers, who had been
hired to work on the Southern Pacific and Oregon railroads. Latterly
there has been an active demand on the Pacific coast for Chinese
labor, and there are three agents in Hong Kong and Canton purchasing
laborers and shipping them here.  Every ship, so far, has brought a
consignment, and 400 are due by the next steamer.  Contracts can be
readily made for Chinese laborers at $1.50 a day, whereas two years
ago that class of workmen could be had for 90 cents a day, without
board. Owing to the high rate of wages ruling here there has been no
emigration of Chinese to the Eastern States, where the demand for
cheap skilled labor has several times been increased by strikes among
cigar-makers and others. A large number of Chinese have sailed from
this port to Honolulu, but the emigration in that direction is
accounted for by the refusal of the authorities at Hong Kong to clear
ships for Honolulu. There are no Chinese government students in this
country at present. All Chinese students who have been in American
colleges have been recalled and apportioned to the civil service of
their own country. The Chinese authorities seem to be satisfied with
the experiment of sending their young men abroad to learn the
languages and arts of the white races, for the system will soon be
amplified, and another delegation of students dispatched to the
universities and factories of this county and Europe.  The efforts of
the Chinese to extend their commerce have not been very numerous or
successful this year. The steamer Ho Chung, which visited this port
and created somewhat of a sensation, never returned to alarm the
public by suggestions of an invasion of Chinese steamers. The Ho Chung
is now in English waters, haying been freighted with merchandise for
some bazaars which her agents proposed to open in London.---San
Francisco Chronicle
