Name: 1882-03-23-ironton_register.txt
Date: 1882-03-23
Paper: Iron County register.
Paperkey: ironton_register
Page: 3
City: ironton
State: MO missouri
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84024283/1882-03-23/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

Why the Chinese were Recalled.

It is said that the recall of the Chinese students was due to an
incident that occurred in an interview which a young and learned
Chinese, had with Li Hung Chang. The Chinese in question had spent
some time in America, and the result of the technical education he had
received there was that he was as skillful as any foreigner in a
certain department of mining engineering. He spoke English perfectly,
and and a good knowledge of French but unfortunately this proficiency
in foreign tongues was obtained at the cost of the vernacular, which
he could neither speak, read, nor write with fluency or correctness.
On arriving in China, the young fellow found himself in what appeared
to him to be a strange land, so unaccustomed was he to the language
and manners of his people, and furthermore, despite his advanced
professional knowledge, he discovered that he could not obtain
employment commensurate with his training and attainments. Some
influential friends bestirred themselves in his behalf, and his case
was brought under the notice of Li Hung Chang, who summoned the young
man to his presence.  The young Chinese felt abashed when he found
himself before the viceroy, and, in reply to the brusque question of
the latter, "What can you do?" he could only stammer out a few words
of shockingly bad Chinese expressive of his respect to the
questioner. His power of expressing himself in the vernacular, which
was limited at the best of times, completely forsook him on this
occasion and he stood trembling before Li. The viceroy was outraged at
this instance of a man forgetting the language of his fathers, and
forcibly told the youth that he was nothing better than a foreigner,
adding: "Why, you were sent abroad to study science and gain
knowledge, not to lose your nationality, and you return here a
complete foreigner." Changing from this severe tone and addressing the
Chinese in a playfully threatening manner, Li intimated to him that he
would give him an opportunity of displaying and exerting his
professional knowledge by sending him to assist in working one of the
mines, but, added the viceroy, "If you do not relearn your language by
the time your probation is finished, beware," and he made a motion
significant of the act of decollation.  The student left the presence
of the dispenser of life and death with a firm determination to return
to the speech of his fathers, and to merit the favor bestowed on him
by Li in "exploiting" this mine. He shortly afterward left for the
scene of operations, and is now acquitting himself with satisfaction
in discharging his duties. Not long after this incident Li had several
interviews with other Chinese who had studied in foreign lands, and
the suspicions engendered in his mind by the first-named student with
respect to the effect of foreign education became confirmed to such a
degree that he approved of, if not originated, the action of recalling
all Chinese studying in America---Shanghai Courier.
