Name: 1882-03-08-connecticut_western.txt
Date: 1882-03-08
Paper: Connecticut western news.
Paperkey: connecticut_western
Page: 1
City: 
State: CT connecticut
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84027718/1882-03-08/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

The Chinese Students.

A letter just received by a gentleman in Hartford from a friend in
China tells what the students lately recalled from this country are
doing. Fifty-one have been distributed as follows: Twenty to the
telegraph office, eight to the medical school, ten to the torpedo
school, seven to the mining school, four to the Customs Department,
and two to the Government docks. The rest, about forty in number, are
at the naval school in Tientsin. A letter from one of the students
indicates that the official wrath has been somewhat appeased by the
discovery that the boys have not forsworn their country and have
attained real proficiency in many important branches. This young man
writes cheerfully about his surroundings and prospects, but frankly
admits that he misses the girls more than anything else. He adds:
"When I was in Shanghai I went to Sunday evening service with my
hostess's daughter, who is a very pretty sweet sixteen, arm in arm,
and you ought to see the people stare at us. They would stop in the
middle of the street and look at us, as if we were so many living
curiosities. I suppose they never saw such a breach of the social
etiquette before. I had the queerest kind of a Christmas present.
What do yon suppose it was I doubt if you can guess it, so I'll tell
you. It was a promotion, in the shape of a crystal button, to the
fifth rank. How is that for high? There are nine ranks in all, so you
see I am half way up the ladder. Of course I don't care any about it
myself, but I suppose the folks at home will think everything of it,
as getting the crystal button at eighteen is not an everyday
affair. We are going to celebrate Christmas night with a big supper,
so that we are not going to let it pass in this land without something
of a recognition."
