Name: 1873-07-24-rutland_weekly_herald.txt
Date: 1873-07-24
Paper: Rutland weekly herald.
Paperkey: rutland_weekly_herald
Page: 3
City: rutland
State: VT vermont
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84022367/1873-07-24/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: 
Author: 
---

Rev. Mr. Farrar's Oration

For several weeks past we have been keeping the high toned and
eloquent oration of Rev. J. P. Farrar, delivered at Ludlow, at the 4th
of July celebration in that place, hoping to find space to publish in
full, but the pressure upon our columns has been so great that we can
only find space for the closing passages. We regret that we cannot
give the oration in full, as it was really the finest effort delivered
upon Independence Day that we have ever received.

Finally, in meeting the results of our independence we are able, by
God's blessing to report progress. The seeds of civil and religious
liberty, which were planted and began to germinate in our early
history, have already borne much fruit. The little rill which issued
from freedom's fount, has become a large stream, and is moving on
majestically, ever deepening and widening, to enrich the political
vineyard of the world.  To be sure, we observe variations in its
course, like the literal stream, now running forward with steady and
peaceful flow, now seemingly turned backward, and for a time bent away
from its true direction, now lingering among the flat low-lands, now
gathering head to hurry onward over obstacles which instead of
impeding, serve by their very agitation to purify and quicken its
current, yet we rejoice as a people in its progress.  The spirit of
restriction and intolerance imported to our shores, from the old
systems of tyranny and martyrdom of the dark ages, has well-nigh
disappeared from our shores. The principle of 'soul liberty' advocated
by William Penn and Calvert, has become universal, and is even making
conquests, with the principles of self-government in the old
world. Napoleon 1st, established republics in Europe for a time, and
aimed a blow at despotism, and then the stream of freedom was turned
backward. Political agitators however, either from good or bad
motives, have kept the undercurrents of liberty in a state of unrest,
and time has already wrought wonders. We behold in Spain and France
the foundations laid for self government, and if the people are
inclined to religion, virtue and intelligence we may hope for their
prosperity. Following in the wake of political revolutions in Spain,
France and Italy, is free toleration of religion. Passing on toward
the east and crossing the boundary line of Europe into Asia, we find
some of the Oriental countries fast becoming occidentalized. Events of
centuries are crowded into a period of a few years.  Chinese students
are arriving in our country, from 10 to 16 years of age, to pursue a
course of study in law, medicine and engineering. Their course of
private and public instruction is to occupy a period of fifteen years,
at the expense of their government, when they are expected to return
and fill important petitions in their native land. This will tend to
remodel the Chinese empire in favor of western ideas, customs,
religion and politics. The government of Japan, which has hitherto
occupied the forefront of Oriental conservatism, is making rapid
strides in the direction of free institutions. Isolated so long, it is
simply wonderful to contemplate what has recently been
accomplished. Japanese embassies have not visited Europe and America
to study their institutions in vain. With her population of
37,000,000, and a territory said to be "more than twice as large as
Great Britain," she is awakening from sleep and emerging from darkness
into freedom's light.  A series of political, social and moral changes
has occurred, which has never been wrought in so short a time. The
government has avowed its purpose to throw the whole country open to
foreigners, subject only to the laws of the empire. A department of
education has been established, and a gigantic system of public
instruction has been planned for each of the eight grand divisions of
the empire. A medical school, with German professors, has been opened,
and thousands of English text books are for sale in the bookstores of
their large cities, From the schools and academies, 180 young men are
to be sent abroad every year to complete their education, and a number
are now in this country prosecuting their studies with encouraging
success. Railroads are being constructed and telegraph lines are being
established. Some of the holidays associated with the ancient pagan
temple worship are abolished and Sunday substituted for them; and on
the 19th day of last February (1873), the Japanese government issued
an edict declaring all laws against the Christian religion abolished.

This programme may not be firmly sustained without a struggle. The
progress of civilization is like the rising tide. A strong wave may
throw its tide-waters far up the strand, and the refluent waters may
beat back the next; yet its onward course is sure. So may we hope that
the cause of civil and religious freedom which has already attained
such important results, may honorably strive for the mastery, until
all that is baneful to its interests is forever concealed by its deep
flood. A Christian civilization will alone confer substantial
blessings to human governments. Ignore this element, and, like ancient
Babylon, Ninevah and Egypt, and even Greece and Rome, Ichabod will be
written upon their palace walls—the glory will depart. Let the engine
or motive power become detached from the moving train on its upward
grade, and there will soon be a remarkable slowing-up. So let the
citizens of a nation, who are striving to rise in the scale of
civilization, exclude the religious element, and they may soon
discover symptoms of inertia and decay.  For your country and for
mine, fellow citizens, let us pray,

  “Still may our land be bright
   With freedom’s holy light;
   Protect us by Thy might,
   Great God, Our King."
