Name: 1873-07-23-new_york_sun.txt
Date: 1873-07-23
Paper: The sun.
Paperkey: new_york_sun
Page: 1
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030272/1873-07-23/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

HIGHWAYMEN IN IOWA


A Passenger Train Stopped by Masked Men--
The Engineer Killed and the Express Safe Robbed of $2,000

Des Moines, July 22.-- A daring robbery of a railroad train was
committed last night, four miles west of Adair, on tho Chicago, Rick
Island and Pacific Railroad. At this point there is a sharp curve in
the road, and here the robbers had placed heavy timbers across the
track to throw the East bound passenger train off.  The engineer, John
Rafferty, saw the obstruction in time to reverse his engine and apply
the air brake, but the robbers observing the movement fired at him
from ambush and shot him dead.  The engine struck the logs and went
off the track into the ditch, and was followed by one of the baggage
cars, the others remaining on the track. Several passengers were
bruised, but none seriously hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after
opening and emptying the safe of the express messenger of its
contents, rode off on horseback. Among the passengers were thirty
Chinese students en route to Springfield, Mass.

ANOTHER ACCOUNT.

Chicago, July 22.--A special depatch to the Evening Journal from Des
Moines to-day gives the following account of the attack on the train
of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad last night:

The train left Council Bluffs at 5 o'clock with four coaches, and two
sleepers in the rear, the sleepers being filled with a company of
aristocratic Chinese on their way to the New England colleges. There
were also two baggage express cars, in which was the through
California mail and express matter, consisting, in short, of nearly
$2,000 in the express safe and three tons of bullion. When about
sixty-five miles west of this city, about 8:30 o'clock, at a sharp
curve on the road and an isolated spot, with no house for several
miles in any direction, the train moving at about twenty-five miles an
hour, the engineer, John Rafferty, suddenly saw one rail moved from
its place about sixty feet ahead of the engine.

A SHOWER OF BULLETS.

He instantly reversed the engine and applied the air brake, and while
in the act bullets came pelting into the engine like hail. The engine
ran into the bank and turned over, throwing out the engineer. John
Rafferty, and the fireman, the former falling on the latter dead. It
was supposed Rafferty was killed by the concussion as no bullet wounds
were found on his body. The fireman escaped unhurt. The train, being
very heavy, ran about one hundred feet and slopped; the baggage cars
doubled and were badly smashed. A soon as the train stopped large
athletic men, masked in full Ku-Klux styles, appeared at the express
car, in which were the conductor Wm. Smith, Superintendent Royce, the
express messenger, John Burgess, and three others person, and
commenced

FIRING RAPIDLY INTO THE CAR.

Yelling "Get out of there, d--n ye; get out of there." Two bullets
passed through the clothe of the conductor, one grazed the skull of
the baggageman, and one the side of the head of the express
messenger. The inmates jumped out, when there were ordered to the
rear, covered by half a dozen navy revolvers.

Two of the robbers marched up and down the train threatening to shoot
any person who showed their heads on the train, saying "Get down out
of sight, d--n ye, or we will shoot you." The robbers then took about
$2,000 from the express safe. cut open the mail sacks (but took no
letters), and mounted each a horse and rode off across the prairie in a
southerly direction the whole being done in less than ten minutes.
They fortunately did not cut the telegraph wire, and Superintendent
Royce at once hastened to the nearest station and telegraphed in all
directions.

PURSUING THE ROBBERS.

Engines and a posse of men were sent out from Council Bluffs on the
Burlington and other roads to interrupt the robbers in a southerly
direction. Their dress and voices indicated they were regular
bushwhackers. They evidently intended to get the usual valuable express
matter by this route on Mondays, but which went through on an extra
train on Sunday night. The robbers during the day stole a spike bar
and hammer from the hand-car house at the station. They drew the
spikes from one end of the rail, and secreted themselves several rods
away, and as the engine approached pulled the rail out of place.

The promptness of the engineer in reversing his engine, and the use of
the air brake, saved the passengers from harm, as not one was injured.

A track was at once laid around the wrecked cars, and the train
resumed its trip, arriving here at 7:30 this morning, bringing the
dead body of the engineer. who resided here, and who leaves a wife and
three children.
