Name: 1873-08-01-dodgeville_chronicle.txt
Date: 1873-08-01
Paper: Dodgeville chronicle
Paperkey: dodgeville_chronicle
Page: 4
City: dodgeville
State: WI wisconsin
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85033019/1873-08-01/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

Particulars of the Railroad Robbery.

[Des Moines, Iowa, (July 22) Special to Chicago Tribune.]

I interviewed Mr. H. F. Royce, Superintendent of the Iowa Division of
the Rock Island Railroad, who was on the train when it was ditched and
robbed. He stated that the train was the Atlantic Express, which left
Council Bluffs at 4:15, and consisted of an engine, two baggage cars,
three coaches and two sleepers. All went well until they reached a
point mid-way between Anita and Adair, and about sixty miles from this
city. It was about eight o’clock, and growing rapidly dark.  They were
traveling at the usual speed, about twenty-six miles an hour, through
a wild, uninhabited prairie; there was not a house in any direction
between them and the horizon. Mr. Royce was seated in the second
baggage-car conversing with a friend, when he felt the application of
the air brake. He wondered for a moment what it meant; there was no
station there, and something must he amiss, or the train would not
stop in that lonely locality. He jumped to his feet, but had hardly
stood up before he felt the shock caused by sudden stoppage, and
simultaneously the car was thrown from the track against the
embankment, the floor inclining at an angle of thirty degrees.  He was
pitched against the side of the car, the bridge of his nose colliding
with the stanchion, causing a painful wound which bled copiously.  He
was roughly shaken up and stunned.

Recovering his faculties, he saw what he described as “a very powerful
mixture of men, baggage, bullion, and express packages.” He heard the
sound of shots, supposing it to be torpedoes. Stepping from the car to
the bank to ascertain the cause of the trouble, he was met by two men,
masked and equipped with navy revolvers, one in each hand. One of them
remarked, “Curse you, get back into that car. Get back, or I’ll kill
you.” Accepting the peremptory invitation he got back as far as the
door of the car, when another masked man, standing inside, also with a
revolver in his hand, observed, “Get out of here, Curse you; get out
of here or I’ll kill you.” He got out, bewildered between two
threatening fires.  He went out on the platform again.  Another armed
ruffian pointed a pistol from the other side of the car, and using the
same expletives, advised him to get in out of that or he would kill
him. A bullet whistled past his ear, and Mr. Royce retired into one of
the passenger coaches, remaining there until the highwaymen left.

In the meantime three of the robbers had captured the express car,
where they expected to find from thirty to fifty thousand dollars, the
amount usually carried on through trains. The route agent,
Killingsworth, was severely contused by the concussion. Burgess, the
express messenger, was raising him from where he fell, when the
robbers entered. One of them acted as sentinel to stop any one from
coming in, another held a cocked pistol to the expressman’s head,
while the third demanded the key of the safe. Burgess, finding
discretion to be the better part of valor, and that it was useless to
resist, handed over the key, with the robber opened the safe and took
out money packages amounting in all to $1,700. He was disappointed at
the small amount, and demanded information as to where there was
more. The messenger replied that there was no more. The robber called
Burgess by a foul and nasty epithet.  Burgess then volunteered to
prove there was no more money by opening the package box. The robber
cut some of the packages with a knife, and was enraged at finding they
contained nothing of value.  There was a large quantity of bullion on
board, but it escaped notice. A mail-bag was taken up and an effort
made to cut it, but not thinking it expedient to lose time with
letters, the thief threw it aside.  While the messenger was being
cross-examined by one of the road agents, another invited
Killingsworth to fork over his pocket-book and knife, and he did so.
The car was then evacuated, the thieves scaled the embankment, mounted
horses and galloped away in a southerly direction, disappearing at
once in the gathering gloom.

While the car was being ransacked, four men with navy revolvers, two
on each side of the train, kept guard outside to intimidate the
passengers and prevent them from interfering with the operations of
their confederates. The passengers were alarmed, not knowing the
moment a volley would he poured into the windows or how long they had
to live.  Some adventurous heads were pointed out, when the highwaymen
with horrible profanity ordered them to disappear inside, or they
would send a bullet into them. A passenger asked if they intended to
kill innocent women and children, when one of the robbers answered:
“If you get back we won’t hurt you. We are not petty robbers. We are
big robbers.  We take from the rich, from those who are able to lose,
for the use of the poor.  We are Grangers, by ---." Mr. Royce says the
reference to Grangers was Pickwickian. The passenger took in his head,
and no others ventured to put theirs out.

The fatal part of the business was enacted at the moment the engine
struck the gap in the track. A volley was fired into the
engine. Dennis Foley, the fireman, who was stooping down shoveling
coal into the furnace, saw the engineer shut off steam with one hand
and put on the brakes with the other. “Jack, what’s the matter?”
shouted Foley, and then he heard a crash, a fusilade of shots, and
Jack fell over on him dead, the wood and coal on top of both. When
Foley, who was bruised and stunned, came to, he extricated himself and
his faithful comrade, who died at the post of duty. No marks of
pistol-shots were found upon the body, and it is thought death was
caused by concussion.

Mr. Royce said that he could have sworn that Rafferty shut off the
steam and applied the brake, and he knows the thought of saving the
hundred lives that rode behind him was the last that entered the mind
of the heroic Rafferty. He says that Rafferty was one of the most
careful, faithful, and brave men that.ever traveled over an iron
road. He had been in the service of the Company five years, during
which he gained the confidence and respect of his employers. The
remains were brought to the city, and taken home to the bereaved
family, who have the sympathy of every one.

When the robbers departed, and they did not remain very long, the
outrage occupying only ten minutes, Mr. Royce dispatched two brakemen
to the next station west, four miles distant, and with a passenger
walked himself four miles east to a section-house where they got a
hand-car and rode eight miles further east to Casey Station. An alarm
was sent along the line, assistance called for, and the agents ordered
to send men after the robbers.  The Sheriffs of several counties
responded, and posses of citizens on horseback started out at daylight
from different points. Relief trains arrived from the east and west,
and large gangs of men went to work to repair the damage to the track,
ending their labors at three o’clock this morning, when the train
resumed its way, reaching here at six o’clock. The robbers did not cut
the wires, as it would have done no good. They calculated the time it
would take the train to communicate with the nearest station as
sufficient to give them a good start in their flight.

Mr. Royce thinks there were not less than six nor more than eight in
the gang.  The masks seemed to have been cut out of white
flannel. They covered the entire face, excepting apertures for the
mouth and eyes, reached back behind the ears, where they were tied,
and down the breast, rendering identification absolutely
impossible. They were thick-set, powerful men, and judging from their
dialect and language, Mr. Royce believes they were genuine border
ruffians, and not persons residing in the vicinity. The claw-bar and
the spike-maul used in removing the rail were taken from the
section-house before mentioned.

There were from ninety to one hundred persons on the train. A small
ivory-handled revolver was the only weapon in the crowd. Of course it
was of no avail, and was not brought into action. None of the
passengers were injured. The coaches and the sleepers stuck to the
track. The rear sleeper was filled by a party of aristocratic Chinese
students, on their way to Springfield, Mass., to be educated.

The tender tipped over on the engine, and the next baggage car rested
on the tender. The second baggage car went into the ditch. The
air-brake and the patent platform saved the remainder of the train.

The manner in which the robbers threw the train indicates that they
knew the business. At an obscure curve where the engineer could not
see the track two hundred and fifty feet ahead, they removed the
plates and drew the spikes from a rail on the outside of the curve, so
that the rail could be easily removed. To the rail they attached a
rope which ran up over the steep of the cut into a surface ditch on a
bank, which completely hid them from the view of the approaching
train. When the train was within three rails’ length, they pulled the
rope, removed the rail, and what followed is detailed above.

Some time ago a conspiracy to rob a train on the same road at another
point was discovered by a railroad man, who was instructed to join the
gang for the purpose of breaking it up, and it was broken up while the
intentions of the gang were known. The engineer, fireman, conductor,
and brakemen of the train were armed by the Company, and two
additional armed men sent as a reinforcement on night trains. Nothing
being known of this last gang no precautions were taken.

There is an intense desire to hear of the capture of the six
perpetrators of this dastardly and murderous outrage. Capital
punishment has been abolished in this State, but there is a universal
belief that the ruffians, if found, will meet death by the bands of
their captors.

