Name: 1873-07-25-fremont_weekly_journal.txt
Date: 1873-07-25
Paper: The Fremont weekly journal
Paperkey: fremont_weekly_journal
Page: 2
City: fremont
State: OH ohio
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85038229/1873-07-25/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

DARING ROBBERY.

Iowa Robbers Stop a Railway Train.

DES MOINES, July 22.

An extraordinary and daring robbery of a railroad train was committed
last night four miles west of Adair, on the Chicago, Rock Island and
Pacific Railroad. At this point there is a sharp curve in the road and
here the robbers had placed heavy timbers across the track, to throw
the eastern bound, passenger train off the track.  The engineer, John
Rafferty, saw the obstruction in time to reverse his engine and apply
the air brake, but the robbers observing the movement fired at him
from ambush, and shot him dead.

The engine struck the logs and went off the track into the ditch, and
was followed by one of the passenger cars, the others with the
passenger trains remaining on the track.  Several passengers were
bruised, but none seriously hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after
opening and emptying the safe of the express messenger of its
contents, rode off on horse back. Among the passengers were thirty
Chinese students en route to Springfield, Massachusetts.

As soon as the train stopped, six large, athletic men, masked in full
Ku-Klux style, appeared at the Express car in which were the
conductor, William Smith, Superintendent Royce, the Express Messenger,
John Burgess and three other persons, and commenced firing rapidly
into the car and yelling, "Get out of there.  d--n ye get out of
there." Two bullets passed through the clothing of the conductor, one
grazed the skull of the baggage-master, and one the side of the
Express Messenger.

The inmates jumped out when they were ordered to the rear, under cover
of half a dozen navy revolvers.  Two of the robbers marched up and
down the train, threatening to shoot any one who should oppose their
operations.

The robbers took about $2,000 from the express safe, put open the mail
sacks, but took no letters, and mounted each a horse and rode off
across the prairie in a southerly direction, the whole being done in
lees than ten minutes. They fortunately did not cut the telegraph
wires, and Superintendent Royce at once hastened to the nearest
station and telegraphed in all directions.

Engines and a posse of men were sent out from Council Bluffs, on the
Burlington and other Roads to intercept the robbers in a southerly
direction. Their dresses and voice indicated that they were regular
bushwhackers, and they evidently intended to get the usual valuable
express matter by this route on Mondays but which went through on an
extra train Sunday night,

The robbers, during the day, stole a spike bar and hammer from a hand
car at the nearest station. They drew the spikes from one end of the
rail, fastened a small cord to it, and secreted themselves several
rods away. As the engine approached they pulled the rail out of the
place.

thee promptness or the engineer and the air brakes saved the
passengers from harm as not one was injured. A track was soon laid
around the wrecked cars, and the train resumed its trip, arriving here
at 7:30 this morning, bringing the dead body of the engineer, who
resided here, and who leaves a wife and three children.

Passengers on the train report that the scene was terrible and baffles
description. When the crash came all were thrown forward some entirely
off their seats; then came the recoil, and immediately after they
heard firing, but supposed it came from the wreck. Many of the men
jumped from the cars and started to go forward, but were ordered back
by the robbers, who continued firing and enforced their commands by
terrible oaths and threats. Back they went with a rush, and in the
cars found women and children half crazed with fright, shrieking,
crying, and fainting, imploring the men to protect them, and
exclaiming, "My God! we shall be killed! we shall be killed!" Stout
hearts quailed and felt they were at the mercy of the
desperadoes. Altogether it was a scene unprecedented in the history of
Railroads in this country as never before has so reckless and daring a
scheme been carried to completion.

All Western Iowa is in a fever of excitement. Farmers miles around are
leaving their harvest fields, and with their families visiting the
scene of the robbery. The engine and baggage car remain as they were
last night. The former is badly wrecked.
