Name: 1873-05-31-superior_times.txt
Date: 1873-05-31
Paper: The Superior times
Paperkey: superior_times
Page: 3
City: superior
State: WI wisconsin
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85040344/1873-05-31/ed-1/?sp=3
Title: The Pagans In This Country.
Author: 
---

THE PAGANS IN THIS COUNTRY.

The Chinese Students in New England --- How they are Taught ---
The Purpose of their Government Concerning Them.

The Springfield (Mass.) Union gives the following gratifying account
of the remarkable progress made by the Chinese students quartered
there, and of the general success of the educational experiment:

"The announcement that another party of Chinese students would arrive
in this city in July, and be placed under the charge of Commissioner
Laisun, shows that the imperial government is well satisfied with its
experiment, and is bound to continue it.  The boys, as was the case
with the other party last year, will be scattered, two and two, in
private families, up and down the valley in Massachusetts and
Connecticut, Six will probably be placed in this city, some at
Greenfield, Northampton and Wilbraham, and perhaps Westfield, while
the Nutmeg State will doubtless receive its share. It is a more
difficult matter than would first be imagined to secure the right kind
of homes for the boys. The family in which they are to be placed must
be people of culture, must live in good style, and be willing to care
for the boys as for their own children. The commissioner is justly
even more strenuous about manners, morals and personal appearance than
about the technicalities of the text books. The boys, as a rule, will
not be placed in public schools, academies or anything of the sort
till after they have been in the country eighteen mouths, and during
this time they are to receive instruction from some member of the
family where they are located. Of the thirty boys who came over last
fall two, who are members of Dr. Cook’s family at Wilbraham, are
attending the academy of which he is principal, and the two sons of
Commissioner Laisun are pupils at the Elm Street Grammar School in
this city. All the rest of the party are still in retirement, and the
four mentioned above are at school only be cause of their superior
knowledge of English.

The first studies taken up by the boys are reading and spelling, with
lessons, every day, in writing and drawing. As soon as the pupils can
make out the words they are put into arithmetic, and in about four
months from the time when they commenced English they take up
geography.  Grammar is not usually begun till three months
later. Object lessons, in which Commissioner Laisun has great faith,
form a prominent feature in the course of study. Other branches are
studied in the American order, and in a year and a half it is
calculated that the pupils will be ready for admission to the highest
room in any of our grammar schools. The progress made by the boys,
during the seven months they have been studying, has more than equaled
the expectations of their friends, as nearly every one has advanced so
far as to be able to begin the elementary lessons in grammar.  The
progress made by the pupils in drawing is perfectly wonderful, the
imitative faculty of the Chinese making them most skillful
artists. Some of the drawings executed by the pupils who, only seven
month ago, knew absolutely nothing of the art, would do credit to any
drawing teacher. In perspective drawing, on the other hand, the
Chinese are quite faulty.

Mr. Laisun visits all his boys once in two months,and puts them
through a thorough examination. It he is not satisfied with their
progress or treatment, he is in duty bound to remove them to other
families, and eight have been thus transferred. Generally, however,
the families in which they are placed have taken great pride in doing
the best possible by their pupils. In addition to their English
studies, the boys are required to spend one hour each day in Chinese
writing and composition and, once in three months, several of them are
brought together at a central point, and spend two weeks solely in
studying Chinese under an imperial teacher. The boys range in age
from ten to sixteen, and the full course of study will embrace fifteen
years, but many will doubtless complete it in less than that time. It
is the intention of the Imperial government to have its pupils learn
all that can be learned in American schools and colleges, and
accordingly after graduating from college the young men will study for
various professions of law, medicine, the bar, engineering, &c. An
effort will be made to get some of the students into the military and
naval academics at West Point and Annapolis, and if the enterprise is
looked upon by our government in the true light, as doubtless it will
be, the request will be granted. The position which the Chinese
students hold towards their government is similar to the relation of a
West Pointer to the United States.  The imperial government educates
the boys, bearing all their expenses, and when their studies are
completed will give them important positions. As these are the only
students now educating abroad by the Chinese government, it is not
unreasonable to hope that the future of the empire will be largely
directed, if not controlled, by these quiet youths, now scattered
along our beautiful valley, as inmates of our New England homes.

Although the change of climate has been very trying to the young
Celestials, they have generally enjoyed good health since they came
here last September, a few cases of scarlet and other fevers being the
only sickness among them worthy of note. None of the boys have died.”
