Name: 1873-07-23-new_york_herald.txt
Date: 1873-07-23
Paper: The New York herald.
Paperkey: new_york_herald
Page: 7
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030313/1873-07-23/ed-1/?sp=7
Title: 
Author: 
---

A DREADFUL CRIME.

Bushwhackers Overthrow and Rob a Train on the Prairie.

Timely Action of the Engineer, Who Is Killed.

THE THIEVES AND THEIR PLUNDER.

Arrival of the Train at Chicago.

Chicago, July 22, 1873.

A special despatch from Des Moines to-day gives the following account
of the attack on the train of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific
Railroad last night:-The train left Council Bluffs at five o'clock
with four coaches and two sleepers in the rear, the sleepers being
filled with a company of aristocratic Chinese on their way to the New
England colleges.  There were also two baggage express cars, in which
was the though California mail and express matter, consisting, in
short, of nearly two thousand dollars in the express safe and three
tons of bullion. When about sixty-five miles west of this city, about
half-past eight o'clock, at a sharp curve on the road and an isolated
spot, with no house for several miles in any direction.  the train
moving at about twenty-five miles an hour, the engineer, John
Rafferty, suddenly

SAW ONE RAIL MOVED

from its place about sixty feet ahead of the engine.  He instantly
reversed the engine and applied the air brake, and while in the act
bullets came pelting into the engine like hail. The engine ran into
the bank and turned over, throwing out the engineer, John Rafferty,
and the fireman, the former falling on the latter dead. It is supposed
Rafferty was killed by the concussion, as no bullet wounds were found
on his body. The fireman escaped, unhurt. The train, being very heavy,
ran about one hundred feet and stopped; the baggage cars doubled and
were badly smashed. As soon as the train stopped large, athletic men,
masked in full Ku Klux style, appeared at the express car, in which
were the conductor, William Smith, Superintendent Royce, the express
messenger, John Burgess, and three other persons, and commenced firing
rapidly into the car, yelling

"GET OUT OF THERE DAMN YE!

get out of there." Two bullets passed through the clothes of the
conductor, one grazed the skull of the baggageman, and one the side of
the head of the express messenger. The inmates jumped out when they
were ordered, to the rear, covered by half a dozen navy revolvers. Two
of the robbers marched up and down the train threatening to shoot any
person who showed their heads on the train, saying, "Get down out of
sight, damn ye! or we will shoot you." The robbers then took about two
thousand dollars from the express safe, cut open the mail sacks (but
took no letters) and mounted each a horse and rode off across the
prairie in a southerly direction, the who;e being done in less than
ten minutes. They fortunately did not cut the telegraph wires, and
Superintendent Royce at once hastened to the nearest station and
telegraphed in all directions. Engines and a posse of men were sent
out from Council Bluffs, on the Burlington and other roads, to
intercept the robbers, in a southerly direction.  Their dress and
voices indicated

THEY WERE REGULAR BUSHWHACKERS.

They evidently intended to get the usual valuable express matter by
this route on Mondays, but which went through on an extra train on
Sunday night.  The robbers during the day stole a spike bar and hammer
from the handcar house at the station. They drew the spikes from one
end of the rail and secreted themselves several rods away, and as the
engine approached pulled the rail out of place.

The promptness of the engineer in recovering his engine and the use of
the air brakes saved the passengers from harm, as not one passenger
was injured. A track was at once laid around the wrecked cars and the
train resumed its trip, arriving here at 7:30 this morning, bringing
the dead body of the engineer, who resided here and who leaves a wife
and three children.

A Reward of $5,000 Offered for the Robbers.

Chicago, Ill, July 22, 1873.

The management of the Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad have
offered a reward of $5,000 for the detection of tho parties who
attacked and robbed the train on that road near Adair, Iowa, last
night.

ANOTHER ACCOUNT.

The Prairie Crime Causing Great Excitement--The Engineer Murdered.

Des Moines, Iowa, July 22, 1873.

An extraordinary and daring robbery of a railroad train was committed
last night, four miles west of Adair, on the Chicago, Rook Island and
Pacific Railroad. At this point there is a sharp curve in the road,
and here the robbers had placed heavy timbers across the track to
throw the East-bound passenger train off. The engineer, John Rafferty,
saw the obstruction in time to reverse his engine and apply the air
brake; but the robbers, observing the movement, fired at him from
ambush and shot him dead. The engine struck the logs and went off the
track into the ditch, and was followed by one of the baggage cars, the
others remaining on the track. Several passengers were bruised, but
none seriously hurt. The robbers, who were masked, after opening and
emptying the safe of the express messenger of its contents, rode off
on horseback. Among the passengers were thirty Chinese students, en
route to Springfield, Mass.

A thousand conjectures are current here in regard to the persons who
robbed the train on the Rock Island Railroad last night.  The most
probable one is that the robbery was committed by persons living near
where the robbery took place.  A valise, in which they carried off the
money taken from the express company's safe, was found five miles
south of the wrecked train to-day. Vigilant parties are scouring
southwestern Iowa, and it is confidently believed the robbers will be
caught if they remain within the State. A telegram received here late
to-night says they crossed the Burlington and Missouri Railroad last
night at midnight.

William A. Smith, conductor of the ill-fated train, testified to-day
at the Coroner's inquest on the body of John Rafferty, the engineer,
who was killed, that the train was wrecked two and a half or three
miles west of Adair Station, and six or seven hundred feet east of
Turkey Creek Bridge; was in the smoking-car near the front end, and
from the noise I thought the engine was in a ditch, with one or two
cars piled upon it; was thrown under the seat in front of me; do not
remember which side or the car. I got out on the bulk. 1 went forward
to see who was hurt; the first person met was one of the masked men
near the baggage car door, who pointed a revolver in each hand toward
me and told me to get back, firing at one and the same time; I backed
down as far as the sleeping coach before I felt I was out of his way;
there I met Dennis Foley, the fireman; he says,

"BILLY, JACK IS DEAD."

The passengers were in a hubbub and the women and children were
crying. I told the passengers I thought the masked men were trying to
rob the baggage car and tried to borrow a revolver but failed. I could
still see the man from where I was. Saw another passing up and down on
the opposite side of the train.  Think he was firing at me, also. Some
of the passengers asked me to get into the train as these men were
firing at me and would be the cause of some or them being killed. I
then went into the sleeping car, at the rear, still trying to get a
revolver, and urging the passengers to keep quiet. as these men were
robbing the baggage car. I went out of the ladies' car up to the bank
and hence to the engine. Two balls passed through my clothing while I
was on the bank. These shots came from the south side of the train.
Did not see a man on the north side then. Did not see or hear anything
more of the masked men. After the passengers had got quiet I went
forward to investigate the cause of the wreck. At the hind truck of
the smoking car I found the fish plate had been removed from the rail
on the north side, disconnecting a rail at both ends. A rope and strap
were tied in the bolt holes of the disconnected rail at the west end,
and a rope passed under the south rail across the ditch and up on to
the bank. A piece of rope was also found on the bank, which seemed to
have been broken from the other. It was a new rope, the common size;
the west end was loose of the rail when I saw it; it was only a few
inches from the south rail; the hind trucks of the smoking car wore
still on the track. We had been running eighteen or twenty miles an
hour.

THE PASSENGERS IN THE TRAIN

report that the scene was terrible and baffles description. When the
crash came all were thrown forward, some entirely out of their
seats. Then came a recoil, and immediately after they heard firing,
but supposed that it came from the wreck. Many of the men jumped from
the cars and started to get forward, and were ordered back by the
robbers, who continued their firing and enforced their commands by
terrible oaths and threats. Back they went, and in the cars found
women and children half crazed with fright, shrieking, crying and
fainting, imploring men to protect them, and exclaiming, "My God! We
shall be killed! We shall be killed!" The stoutest hearts quailed and
felt they were at the mercy of desperadoes. Altogether it was a scheme
unprecedented in the history or railroading in this country, and never
before has so reckless and daring a scheme been carried to
completion. All Western Iowa is in a fever of excitement.  Farmers for
miles around are leaving the harvest fields with their families and
visiting the scene of the robbery. The engine and baggage cars remain
as they were last night. The former is badly wrecked. Superintendent
Royce estimates the loss sustained by the company at about three
thousand dollars.  Governor Carpenter issued a proclamation to-day,
offering a reward of $500 for the arrest of each person engaged in the
robbery.

