Name: 1873-07-23-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1873-07-23
Paper: New-York tribune
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 1
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1873-07-23/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: 
Author: 
---

IOWA HIGHWAYMEN.

A TRAIN ROBBED.

DARING ATTACK BY SIX MEN ON A WESTERN TRAIN--
THE LOCOMOTIVE THROWN FROM THE TRACK
AND THE ENGINEER KILLED—TWO THOUSAND
DOLLARS STOLEN.
[BY TELEGRAPH TO THE TRIBUNE.]

Des Moines, July 22.—From Superintendent Royce who was on the train, I
get particulars of the robbery of tho night express train on the
Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad last night. The train left
Council Bluffs at 5 o'clock with four coaches, two sleeping cars, and
two baggage and express cars. In the rear sleeping car was a number of
Chinese students on their way to New-England colleges. The baggage and
express cars contained the through California mail, express packages
worth $2,000, and three tons of bullion.

At about 8:30 the train, which was moving at the rate of about 20
miles an hour, reached a point 65 miles west of this city, entirely
isolated, no house being within several miles of the place. Here, at a
sharp corner, the engineer, John Rafferty, saw one rail move from its
place about 60 feet ahead of the engine, He instantly reversed the
engine and applied the air-brake, and while doing so bullets came
pelting into the engine like hail. The engine ran into the bank and
turned over, throwing out the engineer John Rafferty, and the fireman,
the former falling on the latter dead. It is supposed he was killed by
concussion, as no bullet wounds are found on his body. The fireman
escaped unhurt. The train ran about 100 feet and stopped; the two
baggage cars doubled up and were badly smashed. As soon as the train
stopped six large athletic men, masked in full Ku-Klux style, appeared
at the express car, in which were the conductor, Wm. Smith
Superintendent Royce, the express messenger, John Burgess and three
other persons, and began firing rapidly into the car, yelling, "Get
out of there, --- you!  Get out of there!” Three bullets passed
through the clothes of the conductor, one grazed the skull of the
baggageman, and one the side of the head of the express messenger. The
inmates jumped out, when they were ordered to the rear under cover of
half a dozen navy revolvers.  Two of the robbers marched up and down
the train threatening to shoot any person who showed their head on the
train, saying "Get down out of sight ye or we will shoot you.” The
robbers then took about $2,000 from the express safe, cut open the
mail packs, but took no letters, and mounted each a horse and rode off
across the prairie in a southerly direction, the whole being done in
less than ten minutes, They fortunately did not cut the telegraph
wires, and Superintendent Royce hastened at once to the nearest
station, and telegraphed in all directions. Engines and several men
were sent out from Council Bluffs on the Burlington and other roads to
intercept the robbers in a southerly direction. The dresses and voices
of the robbers indicated they were regular bushwhackers, and they
evidently intended to get the usual valuable express matter by this
route on Monday’s train, but which went through on an extra train on
Sunday night. During the day the robbers stole a spike, bar, and
hammer from a hand-car house at the nearest station: then they drew
the spike from one end of the rail, fastened a small cord to it and
secreted themselves several rods away. As the engine approached they
pulled the rail out of place, and the promptness of the engineer in
using the air-brakes alone saved the passengers from harm, not one of
whom was injured. A track was at once laid around the wrecked cars,
and the train resumed its trip, arriving here at 7:30 this morning,
bringing the dead body of the engineer, who resided here, and who
leaves a wife and three children,

The latest news from the railroad robbery last
night is that a large body of men is in close pursuit
of the robbers, and that they are fleeing south
through Montgomery County, with but little chance
of escape, the whole country having been informed
of the affair. They can be identified by farmers
from near the scene of the robbery, where they
stopped on Saturday and Sunday. The railroad
company offers a reward of $5,000 for their capture.
The damage done the wrecked train amounts to
$3,000,

TRACES OF THE ROBBERS DISCOVERED—THE CONDUCTOR'S EVIDENCE.

DesMoines, Iowa, July 22.—A thousand conjectures are current here in
regard to the persons who robbed the train on the Rock Island Railroad
last night.  The most probable one is that the robbery was committed
by persons living near where the robbery took place. A valise in which
they carried off money taken from the express company’s safe was found
five miles south of the wrecked train to-day. Vigilant parties are
scouring South Western Iowa, and it is confidently believed the
robbers will be caught if they remain within the State. A telegram
received here late to-night says they crossed the Burlington and
Missouri Railroad last night at midnight.  Wm. A. Smith, conductor of
the ill-fated train, testified, to-day, at the coroner’s inquest on
the body of John Rafferty, the engineer who was killed, that the train
was wrecked 2 1/2 or 3 miles west of Adair station, and 600 or 700
feet cast of Turkey Creek Bridge. He said:

I was in the smoking car near the front end; from the noise I thought
the engine was in a ditch, with one or two cars piled upon it; I was
thrown under the seat in front of me; don’t remember which side of the
car; I got on out on the bank; I went forward to see who was hurt; the
first person I met was one of the masked men near the baggage car
door, who pointed a revolver in each hand toward me, and told me to
get back, firing at one and the same time; I backed down as far as the
sleeping coach before I felt I was out of his way; there I met Dennis
Foley, the fireman; he says, “Billy, Jack is dead;” the passengers
were in a hubbub, and the women and children were crying; I told the
passengers I thought the masked men were trying to rob the baggage
car, and tried to borrow a revolver, but failed; I could still see the
man from where I was; saw another passing up and down of the opposite
side of the train; think he was firing at me also; some of the
passengers asked me to get into the train, as these men were firing at
me and I would be the cause of some of them being killed; I then went
into the sleeping-car at the rear, still trying to get a revolver and
urging passengers to keep quiet, as these men were robbing the baggage
car; I went out of the ladies’ car up to the bank, and hence to the
engine; two balls passed through my clothing while I was on the bank;
these shots came from the south side of the train; did not see a man
on the north side then did not see or hear any thing more of the
masked men; after the passengers had got quiet I went forward to
investigate the cause of the wreck; at the hind truck of the smoking
car I found the fish plate had been removed from the rail on the north
side disconnecting a rail at both ends; a rope and strap were tied in
the bolt holes of the disconnected rail at the west end and a rope
passed under the south rail across the ditch and up on to the bank; a
piece of rope was also found on the bank which seemed to have been
broken from the other; It was a new rope, the common size; the west
end was loose of the rail when I saw it; it was only few inches from
the south rail; the hind truck of the smoking car were still on the
track; we had been running 18 or 20 miles an hour,

The passengers on the train report that the scene was terrible and
baffles description. When the crash came, all were thrown forward,
some entirely out of their seats. Then came a recoil, and immediately
after they heard firing, but supposed that it came from the wreck.
Many of the men jumped from the cars and started to get forward, and
were ordered back by the robbers, who continued their firing, and
enforced their commands by terrible oaths and threats. Back they went,
and in the cars found women and children half crazed with fright,
shrieking, crying, and fainting, imploring men to protect them, and
exclaiming “My God! we shall be killed, we shall be killed.” The
stoutest hearts quailed and felt that they were at the mercy of
desperadoes. Altogether it was a scene unprecedented in the history of
railroading in this country, as never before has so reckless and
daring a scheme been carried to completion. All western Iowa is in a
fever of excitement.  Farmers for miles around are leaving the harvest
fields with their families and visiting the scene of the robbery. The
engine and baggage cars remain as they were last night. The former is
badly wrecked. Superintendent Royce estimates the loss sustained by
the company at about $3,000. Gov. Carpenter issued a proclamation
to-day offering a reward of $500 for the arrest of each person engaged
in the robbery.
