Name: 1873-08-18-nyt.txt
Date: 1873-08-18
Paper: The New York Times
Paperkey: nyt
Page: 5
City: New York
State: NY new york
Title: The Chinese Educational Mission
Url: 
Author: 
---

In an article in the Congregationalist, the origin, character, and
constitution of the Chinese Educational Commission, whose headquarters
are in Hartford, Conn., are set forth as follows: "In the year 1871,
Tsang Kwoh Fan, a statesman of the highest order, a man of greatest
energy and most rigid integrity, one who struck a death-blow upon the
rebels in the City of Nankin, and by that means quelled the rebellion;
who subsequently became the Viceroy of the Kiang Nan, supported by Lee
Hoong Chang, the Viceroy of Chih Le, and Ting Jeh Ghang, Governor of
Kiang Soo, respectively, memorialized the Emperor to select 120 clever
youths, irrespective of birth and position, to be sent to the United
States to receive a collegiate as well as professional education. They
are to be sent in four installments to thirty students each year. They
must return to China, to serve the Government in the capacity for
which they have been fitting themselves, when they have completed
their course of studies, including their one or two years' travel in
Europe. They are not to remain for more than fifteen years. One
million and a half dollars were appropriated for carrying out this
educational scheme. To this end a preparatory school was established
in the city of Shanghai in the Winter of 1871, where pupils are
collected, and, after several months' trial of their ability, the
brightest of them are selected for the United States. The first
installment of thirty lads arrived at San Francisco on the 12th of
September, 1872, and reached Springfield, Mass., on the 22 of the
same month. The mission was composed of Chin Lan Pin, Commissioner, a
member of the Imperial College, and Under Secretary of the Board of
Punishment; Yung Wing, Commissioner, an officer of the third rank;
Chan Laisun, interpreter, with his family, consisting of Mrs. Laisun,
three sons, and three daughters, and two Chinese tutors, Yeh Yun Sau
and Yung Tsang Cheong. The above thirty pupils have been placed in
different family schools in the States of Massachusetts and
Connecticut, and a happier result cannot be anticipated than has been
realized. The second installment arrived in Springfield a few days
since. It was a remarkable coincidence, that no sooner had the
memorial of Tsaug Kwoh Fan, with reference to the Chinese educational
mission, with all its details, been canvassed and sanctioned by the
Emperor, and received hearty cooperation by the foreign board than he
died. Providence had endowed Tsang Kwoh Fan with extraordinary talent
to quell rebellion, to govern mighty people, to carry on able
diplomacy with foreign Powers, each of which requires abilities of the
highest kind, and rank among the ablest men of the age; and he left a
fame which Chinese historians and poets delight to celebrate. But we
believe his fame in all the above abilities combined will be dim when
future generations have learned the boldness with which Tsang Kwol
Fan, in spite of the anti-foreign element, that had great influence
with the Emperor, advocated and carried out the grand scheme of the
Chinese educational mission."

To this, the Hartford Post says, should be added the statement that
the efforts of Kwoh Fan, Hoong Chang, and Jeh Ghang, were due to the
increasing labors of Yung Wing. now of Hartford, who was a graduate of
Yale College, and went back to China filled with the one purpose of
securing the education of Chinese youth by having them sent to this
country. After many discouragements, he succeeded in enlisting the
above-named nobles in his scheme, and success followed.

