Name: 1873-07-28-worcester_spy.txt
Date: 1873-07-28
Paper: Worcester daily spy
Paperkey: worcester_spy
Page: 2
City: worcester
State: MA massachusetts
Title: The Chinese Students
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83021205/1873-07-28/ed-1/?sp=2
Author: 
---
The Chinese Students

A correspondent, who knows beyond question whereof he speaks, sends us
the following communication concerning the Chinese students and the
educational mission, which will be read with interest:

To the Editor of the Evening Post:

In your article in regard to the Chinese students, in the Post of the
22d inst., you credit Mr. Laisun with the superintendency of Chinese
education in this country. This is an error, first, because there is
no such office in connection with the mission, and, second, because
Mr. Laisun does not in any sense perform the duties which would be
incumbent upon that position.

The commission consists of two commissioners---Mr. Yung Wing and
Mr. Chin Lan Pin---also a teacher of the Chinese language, and an
interpreter (Mr. Laisun), besides a tailor, barber and corps of
servants.

Hartford is the headquarters of the commission, and all the officers
and attaches reside here with the exception of Mr. Laisun. The labor
which your article credited to Mr. Laisun devolves entirely upon
Commissioner Wing, who, it is proper to state, was also the originator
of the whole scheme.

Mr. Wing was educated in this country, being a graduate of Yale
college, and the only Chinaman who ever enjoyed a similar honor.
Becoming thoroughly embued with the spirit of our institutions, and
alive to the importance of our educational advantages, it became his
greatest desire to be the means of extending to his countrymen the
same opportunities which he had enjoyed. He conceived the plan of the
present mission several years ago, but the obstacles to its successful
execution were so numerous, and apparently insurmountable, that a less
courageous and persevering mind would have long since abandoned the
idea in despair.

At last, however, success crowned the patient, persistent efforts of
fifteen years, and the result we witness.

The Chinese government, in granting the petition and making the
necessary appropriation for the mission, adhered strictly to the
details of the original plan, drafted by Mr. Wing, and even allowed
him to dictate ail of the appointments except that of the associate
commissioner.  Commissioner Lan Pin being unable to speak or write in
the English language, all the responsibility and labor of the
commission falls upon Commissioner Wing, who is constantly occupied
with its numerous and laborious details.  Thus it will be seen how
thoroughly Mr. Wing is identified with this great “labor of love” in
behalf of his country. It is proper to add that these facts are given
without the knowledge of Mr. Wing and simply for the purpose of
correcting a misapprehension which appears to exist in the mind of
many persons.

                                                        “EQUITY.”

Whereof we rise to explain. It was our impression and that of the
public generally that the headquarters of the commission were in
Springfield and that Mr. Laisun was the superintendent and general
manager of affairs. That impression was derived by the public partly
because of Mr. Yung Wing’s modesty and partly because of Mr. Laisun’s
lack of that quality.  Mr. Laisun, it appears, is but an interpreter,
and received his appointment from Mr. Yung Wing. Mr. Laisun has been
made quite a lion of in Springfield and that vicinity, has addressed
teachers’ institutes, etc., and we suspect has rather encouraged the
Springfield papers in their evident belief that he was _the_ man of
the commission. The paragraph in Tuesday’s paper, to which our
correspondent alludes, was based upon facts, or rather
misrepresentations, given all in good faith, no doubt, by one of the
Springfield papers. It was in reference to the arrival of the second
party of Chinese students and as printed by the Springfield paper,
contained expressions like these: “They will report at once to
Mr. Laisun, superintendent of the education of the Chinese in this
country.” “Mr.  Laisun proposes to distribute them in families up and
down the Connecticut valley, as he had done those already under his
charge.” “Mr.  Laisun has not yet decided definitely where to assign
the new comers,” etc. All of which reads very funnily in view of the
fact presented by our correspondent that Mr. Laisun is but a
subordinate employee and entirely under Commissioner Young’s
direction. Our Springfield newspaper friends must not push Mr. Laisun
along too fast; he is evidently fully capable of taking care of
himself in that regard.

Now as to the boys—the new arrivals. Mr Yung Wing went up to
Springfield Wednesday evening to meet them on their arrival from the
west, and send them to the places assigned them. Rather more than half
the number will come into Connecticut, the others will go to
Massachusetts towns. Hartford will have no new ones, but there will be
two in Southington, two in Canton, two in Washington, etc. Those in
Massachusetts will go to Greenfield, Northampton, Amherst, Wilbraham,
Warren and Easthampton.

Postscript. The boys arrived in Springfield last night, and the
Republican says: “The scene at the depot as the party landed was
exceedingly humorous. The little fellows could not laugh enough at
the architectural beauties of our grand central depot. and all the
other odd things that they saw, and it seemed as though they would
never tire of walking up and down the long line of hacks, and jumping
in and upon the vehicles. All of them are bright, intelligent looking
little fellows, and seem to have their full allowance of youthful
spirits. Some of them have picked up a few English words, but they all
had too much to say last night to attempt anything but their native
tongue.”

Both of the Springfield papers, The Union of last evening and The
Republican of today, talk of "Commissioner" Laisun, what he has done
and what the boys will do, and The Union tells how "the boys are
chosen from the imperial training school at Shanghai, _an institution
established by Commissioner Laisun_ two years ago for the express
purpose of selecting and fitting boys for the American mission.” Well,
well! Interpreter Laisun is more brazen-faced than we supposed, in
taking the credit of an institution and a system that his superior and
patron gave the earnest and persistent work of the best years of his
life to secure. Let’s hear no more of “Commissioner” Laisun.
— Hartford Post.
