Name: 1873-05-20-worchester_daily_press.txt
Date: 1873-05-20
Paper: Worcester daily press
Paperkey: worchester_daily_press
Page: 1
City: worcester
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83021219/1873-05-20/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: OUR CHINESE PUPILS
Author: 
---

OUR CHINESE PUPILS.

Another party of Chinese students will arrive in New England in July,
and will be quartered at Springfield for a few days, as was the case
with the party last year, and will then be scattered, two and two, in
private families, up and down the valley in Massachusetts and
Connecticut. Several more will probably be located in Hartford.  It is
a more difficult matter than would at first be imagined to secure the
right kind of homes for the boys. The family in which they are to be
placed must be people of culture, must live in good style, and be
willing to care for the boys as for their own children. The
commissioner is justly even more strenuous about manners, morals and
personal appearance than about the technicalities of the text books.
The boys, as a rule, will not be placed in public schools, academies
or anything of the sort till after they have been in the country
eighteen months, and during this time they are to receive instruction
from some member of the family where they are located.

The first studies taken up by the boys are reading and spelling, with
lessons every day in writing and drawing. As soon as the pupils can
make out the words they are put into arithmetic, and in about four
months from the time when they commenced English, they take up
geography. Grammar is not usually begun till three months later.
Object lessons, in which Commissioner Laisun has great faith, form a
prominent feature in the course of study. Other branches are studied
in the American order, and in a year and a half it is calculated that
the pupils will be ready for admission to the highest room in any of
our grammar schools.  The progress made by the boys, during the seven
months they have been studying, has more than equalled the expectation
of their friends, as nearly every one has advanced so as to begin
elementary lessons in grammar.  The progress made by the pupils in
drawing is perfectly wonderful, the imitative faculty of the Chinese
making them most skillful artists. Some of the drawings executed by
pupils who, only seven months ago, knew absolutely nothing of the art,
would do credit to the drawing teachers. In perspective drawing, on
the other hand, the Chinese are quite faulty.

Mr. Laisun visits all his boys once in two months and puts them
through a thorough examination. If he is not satisfied with their
progress or treatment, he is in duty bound to remove them to other
families, and eight have been thus transferred. Generally, however,
the families in which they are placed have taken great pride in doing
the best possible by their pupils. In addition to their English
studies, the boys are required to spend one hour each day in Chinese
writing and composition; and, once in three months, several of them
are brought together at a central point, and spend two weeks solely in
studying Chinese under an imperial teacher.  The boys range in age
from 10 to 16, and the full course of study will embrace 15 years, but
many will doubtless complete it in less than that time. It is the
intention of the imperial government to have its pupils learn all that
can be learned in American schools and colleges, and accordingly after
graduating from college the young men will study for the various
professions of law, medicine, the bar, engineering, etc. An effort
will be made to get some of the students into the military and naval
academies of West Point and Annapolis, and if the enterprise is looked
upon by our government in the true light, as doubtless it will be, the
request will be granted. The position which the Chinese students hold
towards their government is similar to the relation of a West Pointer
to the United States. The imperial government educates the boys,
bearing all their expenses, and when their studies are completed will
give them important positions. As these are the only students now
being educated abroad by the Chinese government, it is not
unreasonable to hope that the future of the empire will be largely
directed if not controlled by these quiet youths, now scattered along
our beautiful valley, as inmates of our New England homes.

Although the change of climate has been very trying to the young
Celestials, they have generally enjoyed good health since they came
here last September, a few cases of scarlet and other fevers being the
only sickness among them worthy of note. None of the boys have died.
