Name: 1873-06-12-litchfield_enquirer.txt
Date: 1873-06-12
Paper: Litchfield enquirer.
Paperkey: litchfield_enquirer
Page: 1
City: litchfield
State: CT connecticut
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn84020071/1873-06-12/ed-1/?sp=1
Title: The Chinese Students in America.
Author: 
---

The Chinese Students in America.

The Springfield (Mass.) Union gives the following gratifying account
of the remarkable progress made by the Chinese students quartered
there and of the general success of the educational experiment:

“The announcement that another party of Chinese students would arrive
in this city in July, and be placed under the charge of Commissioner
Laisun, shows that the imperial government is well satisfied with its
experiment, and is bound to continue it. The boys, as was the case
with the party last year, will be scattered, two and two, in private
families, up and down the valley in Massachusetts and Connecticut. Six
will probably be placed in this city, some at Greenfield, Northampton
and Wilbraham, and perhaps Westfield, while the Nutmeg State will
doubtless receive its share. It is a more difficult matter than would
at first be imagined to secure the right kind of homes for the
boys. The family in which they are to be placed must be people of
culture, must live in good style, and be willing to care for the boys
as for their own children. The commissioner is justly even more
strenuous about manners, morals and personal appearance than about the
technicalities of the text-books. The boys, as a rule, will not be
placed in public schools, academies or any thing of the sort, till
after they have been in the country eighteen months, and during this
time they are to receive instructions from some member of the family
where they are located. Of the thirty boys who came over last fall,
two, who are members of Dr.  Cook’s family at Wilbraham, are attending
the academy of which he is principal, and the two sons of Commissioner
Laisun are pupils at the Elm street grammar school in this city. All
the rest of the party are still in retirement, and the four mentioned
above are at school only because of their superior knowledge of
English.

“The first studies taken up by the boys are reading and spelling, with
lessons, every day, in writing and drawing. As soon as the pupils can
make out the words they are put into arithmetic, and in about four
months from the time when they commenced English they take up
geography. Grammar is not usually begun till three months
later. Object lessons, in which Commissioner Laisun has great faith,
form a prominent feature in the course of study. Other branches are
studied in the American order, and in a year and a half it is
calculated that the pupils will be ready for admission to the highest
room in any of our grammar schools. The progress made by the boys,
during the seven months they have been studying, has more than
equalled the expectation of their friends, as nearly every one has
advanced so as to begin elementary lessons in grammar. The progress
made by the pupils in drawing is perfectly wonderful, the imitative
faculty of the Chinese making them most skilful artists.  Some of the
the drawings executed by pupils who, only seven mouths ago, knew
absolutely nothing of the art, would do credit to any drawing
teacher. In perspective drawing, on the other hand, the Chinese are
quite faulty.

"Mr. Laisun visits all his boys once in two months and puts them
through a thorough examination. If he is not satisfied with their
progress or treatment, he is in duty bound to remove them to other
families, and eight have been thus transferred. Generally, however,
the families in which they are placed have taken great pride in doing
the best for their pupils.  In addition to their English studies, the
boys are required to spend one hour each day in Chinese writing and
composition; and, once in three months, several of them are brought
together at a central point, and spend two weeks solely in studying
Chinese under an imperial teacher.  The boys range in age from ten to
sixteen, and the full course of study will embrace fifteen years, but
many will doubtless complete it in less than that time. It is the
intention of the imperial government to have its pupils learn all that
can be learned in American schools and colleges, and accordingly after
graduating from college the young men will study for various
professions of law, medicine, the bar, engineering, &c. An effort will
be made to get some of the students into the military and naval
academies at West Point and Annapolis, and if the enterprise is looked
upon by our government in the true light, as doubtless it will be, the
request will be granted.  The position which the Chinese students hold
towards their government is similar to the relation of a West Pointer
to the United States. The imperial government educates the boys,
bearing all their expenses, and when their studies are completed will
give them important positions.  As these are the only students now
educating abroad by the Chinese government, it is not unreasonable to
hope that the future of the empire will be largely directed, if not
controlled, by these quiet youths, now scattered along our beautiful
valley, as inmates of our New England homes.

"Although the change of climate has been very trying to the young
Celestials, they have generally enjoyed good health since they came
here last September, a few cases of scarlet and other fevers being the
only sickness among them worthy of note. None of the boys have died."
