Name: 1880-09-11-salt_lake_herald.txt
Date: 1880-09-11
Paper: The Salt Lake herald.
Paperkey: salt_lake_herald
Page: 4
City: salt lake city
State: UT utah
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn85058130/1880-09-11/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: 
Author: 
---

Beating the Home Government.

Chicago 10.---Tribune's Boston: The Chinese government has abandoned
all attempts to enforce the return to China of Yung Kwai, the Chinese
student who graduated at the high school in Springfield and has since
been admitted to Harvard, but who was ordered home by his father
because he embraced the Christian religion. Kwai started from Hartford
with a number of companions who have been ordered home, for San
Francisco by way Springfield. A few evenings since, while tho agent in
charge was securing through tickets, young Kwai and a Harvard
sophomore named Taw, who had been ordered home for the same reason,
disappeared taking their baggage-check with them They readily found
friends who kept them secreted for a day, meanwhile employing a
distinguished Boston lawyer to confer with Secretary Evans to
ascertain their exact status as relates to the home government. The
reply of Evarts, giving extracts of the treaty between our government
and China, is just received and sets at rest all fears of the friends
of the two young men concerning their liability to to forced back to
China and prosecuted and perhaps beheaded for their religion.  The
extracts are as follows: Chinese subjects shall enjoy all the
privileges of public educational institutions under control of the
government of the United States which are enjoyed in the respective
countries by citizens on subjects of the most favored nation. Chinese
subjects in the United States shall enjoy entire liberty of
conscience, and shall be exempt from all disability or persecution on
account of their religious faith or worship in either country. Both
governments consequently agree to pass laws making it a penal offense
for a citizen of the United States or Chinese subjects to take Chinese
subjects either to the United States or to any other foreign country
or for a Chinese subject or citizen of the United States to take a
citizen of the United States to China or to a foreign country without
their free and voluntary consent, respectively.

The Chinese commissioner at Hartford has already notified Kwai's
friends that they shall not molest him and the young man is quietly
awaiting the opening of the college term.
