Name: 1880-07-02-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1880-07-02
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 4
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1880-07-02/ed-1/?sp=4
Title: WILLISTON SEMINARY.
Author: 
---

WILLISTON SEMINARY.

The Williston seminary anniversary exercises really begin with
Founder’s day on the 17th.  Tuesday was given up to a tournament of
athletic sports by the boys, the alumni and trustee meetings, and an
evening concert by the Beethoven quartet club of Boston, aided by Mrs
E. Humphrey Allen and members of the Germania band. The alumni meeting
was held in the Payson church at 3 p.m. and was presided over by Judge
William S. Shurtleff, ’5O, of this city, the address being by Lawyer
James M. Barker, ’56, of Pittsfield, and the poem by Rev Dr Middleton,
’55, of Glen Cove, N. Y. The address of Mr Barker was nearly an hour
in length, and was a plea for universal peace, the disbanding of
standing armies and the inculcation of peace doctrines by the church.
The address was followed by the presentation to the trustees of the
portrait of Dr Josiah Clark, second principal of the seminary, by
President Shurtleff. The picture was a large-sized one, finely
executed by J. H. DeWitt of New York, and represents Dr Clark seated
at his desk with a large book open before him. It cost $250, and the
money was collected from the alumni by Prof J. H. Sawyer. The
president then introduced Rev Dr Middleton, whose poem proved to be in
memory of Dr Clark, and to be couched in pleasing verse, which
contained many a graceful tribute to the life of the departed.  Lawyer
J. C. Hammond of Northampton presided at the business meeting of the
alumni, which came after the public session, and Judge Shurtleff was
re-chosen president and H. H. Sawyer, ’71, of Easthampton, Dr
E. M. Bentley, ’46, of Ellenville, N. Y,. Prof H. M. Tyler, ’61, of
Northampton, J. E. Hull, ’76, and T. E. Saxe, ’80, of Troy, N. Y.,
vice-presidents. Prof R. M. Wright was made secretary and treasurer,
and Prof J. H. Sawyer, E. W. Chapin, ’59, of Holyoke, J. C. Hammond,
’61, and W. H. Bentley, ’80, of Ellenville, N. Y., are the executive
committee.  Speeches were made by Prof H. B. Wason, ’51, of Troy,
N. Y., and Dr Bentley, relating some of the experiences of their
school-days. Prof Sawyer said he had raised the $250 required for the
Clark portrait, and he thought that he had done his share in begging
money for portraits, and now he would like to have somebody secure one
of Marshall Henshaw. The trustees chose three new members to fill
vacancies, Prof R. H. Mather of Amherst, J. C. Hammond and Rev
A. R. Merriam of Easthampton. Gov Knight was reelected president of
the board, A. L. Williston being made treasurer, and the prudential
committee consists of the president and treasurer, Col Clark,
Principal Fairbank and Rev J. H. Bisbee; Dr Seelye is auditor, and
Messrs Knight, M. F. Dickinson, Jr., Williston and Bisbee form the
committee on finance.

Seniors’-day came Wednesday, when 24 students graduated from the
classical department and 15 from the scientific. Among the former are
Charles William Eustis of Springfield, Arthur Gordon Butler of
Northampton, Robert Hunt Lyman of Holyoke, Edmund Hinckley Sawyer of
Easthampton, Fred Merwin Smith of South Hadley Falls, William Tolman
of Pittsfield, Marshall Crane Hayes of Dalton, George Marvin Cheney of
Southbridge, and Henry Clayton Beaman of Princeton. In the scientific
department are Cassius Samuel Lyman of Holyoke, Edward Kingsley
Parsons of Southampton, John Howard James of Williamsburg, George
Franklin Edwards of Northampton, and Havelock Orsamus Bardwell of
Bardwell's Ferry. Each department contains one Chinese graduate.  The
honors of the scientific department are taken by John Fuller Rowe of
Honesdale, Pa., whose valedictory is on "Unfinished Education,"
William Bishop Judd of Minneapolis, Minn., and Erastus Foster Post of
Quogue, N. Y. Those of the classical department to Willson Carpenter
of Sheomeko, N. Y., who has the salutatory, William Harmon Bentley of
Ellenville, N.Y., and Fred Merwin Smith of South Hadley Falls, who has
the Greek oration. There are 15 speakers on the program, and two of
them have been excused. Of the students who will enter college, 15 go
to Yale, 7 to Amherst, 3 to Williams and 1 to Harvard. Three Chinese
students have gone from the scientific department to the Massachusetts
institute of technology, and seven students go to the Sheffield
scientific school at New Haven, one of them entering an advanced
class.

In looking back over the past year Principal Fairbanks and the faculty
find many things on which to congratulate themselves. The discipline
of the school has been good, particularly during the summer term,
always regarded the hardest of the year, in which no disturbances have
occurred. The average attendance of students upon school duties has
been about the same as last year. The per cent of new students has
been 38 larger than last year, and up to the standard of the past 20
years, and more applications for admission have been so far received
than had come in at the beginning of last fall’s term. The outlook for
the future is very promising. The college record of last year’s
graduates has been remarkably good. The scientific class of ’77 had a
pleasant reunion last night at the Round Hill hotel, 9 of the 12
members being present.
