Name: 1880-09-03-springfield_republican.txt
Date: 1880-09-03
Paper: Springfield weekly Republican
Paperkey: springfield_republican
Page: 8
City: springfield
State: MA massachusetts
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83020847/1880-09-03/ed-1/?sp=8
Title: 
Author: 
---

LOCAL INTELLIGENCE
SPRINGFIELD AND VICINITY

Many people in this city will remember Yung Kwai, the Chinese lad who
graduated from the high school last June, with the salutatory. He has
since got into a good deal of trouble, which will doubtless attract
wide and interested attention, because his case may possibly affect
the policy of his government regarding Chinese students in this
country. While in Springfield Yung Kwai became a Christian, and wrote
home about it to his father, who is one of the highest of the Chinese
nobles, though not of royal blood.  The father wrote a very indignant
letter to the boy, who was transferred to Hartford after graduation,
and ordered him to return home at once, threatening to starve and beat
him into renouncing his nonsense. As the boy was determined to be true
to his new faith at all hazards, he looked upon his return to China as
going to almost certain death; but he started quietly with other boys
Saturday for Boston, whence they were to sail for home by way of
Europe. But Yung Kwai stepped from the train in this city, on the plea
of bidding good-by to his friends here, and that is the last that has
been seen of him. Where he is nobody seems to know. He is 20 years
old, and he is evidently hoping to keep hidden for a year until he
becomes of age and can become a citizen of the United States.  The boy
must be credited with a rare devotion to principle. He had lived in
this city six or seven years, and was much loved for his personal
virtues, and admired for his intellectual gifts, being considered one
of the most industrious and talented of all the Chinese students in
the care of the commission. This and his high birth would doubtless
have opened for him a way to special advancement in the public life of
his native country. But the young Christian chooses to become nothing
in a strange land, and follow his new found master.
