Name: 1875-12-10-new_york_tribune.txt
Date: 1875-12-10
Paper: New-York tribune
Paperkey: new_york_tribune
Page: 5
City: new york
State: NY new york
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn83030214/1875-12-10/ed-1/?sp=5
Title: 
Author: 
---

CHINA and the UNITED STATES

EXTRACTS FROM THE DIPLOMATIC CORRESPONDENCE.

HORRORS OF THE COOLIE TRADE IN CUBA---CHINESE CADETS FOR WEST POINT---
OPIUM-SMOKING---HOSTILITY OF THE CHINESE TO INTERNAL IMPROVEMENTS---
A CHINESE AMAZON.

Washington, Dec. 8.—One of the most interesting topics in the
diplomatic correspondence between the Legation of the United States in
China and the State Department is the maltreatment of coolies in
Cuba. The Chinese Government during 1872 prohibited the emigration of
Chinese to Cuba, and inasmuch as the Spanish Chargé d'Affaires
complained that it was a violation of the treaty of 1864, a commission
was sent to Cuba to investigate the condition of the Chinese. It was
agreed between the representatives of the two Governments that the
report of this Commission should be submitted to the representatives
of Great Britain, Russia, the United States, France and Germany, who
were to decide whether China was justified in suspending
emigration. The Commission reached Cuba in March, 1874, and returned
to Peking in January, 1875. The depositions of nearly 1,200 coolies
were taken, The late Minister Avery thus summed up the case as it is
presented by the papers from the Yamen and the Commissioners:

The treaty of 1864 provides for free emigration only, and the complete
protection of the emigrant, with leave to return to China at the
expiration of his service. In violation of this treaty, Chinese have
been kidnapped by force or inveigled by falsehood. They have been
confined and treated like prisoners in the barracoons at Macao, denied
access to friends, intimidated or deceived into signing unjust
contracts, shipped like slaves, and cruelly treated on the
voyage. Eight or nine out of every ten have been conveyed to Cuba
against their will. Among the kidnapped were some persons of literary
and official rank, who are now held to unwilling labor. Many jumped
overboard on the voyage, wild at the fraud practiced upon them, or
crazed with the suffering they endured from overcrowding, filth, and
insufficient food.  From the same causes many died in the ship's hold,
and were thrown overboard. Altogether, it is stated that one in ten
died on the passage. Arrived in Cuba, their services were sold at a
great profit on the cost of transportation. Witnesses state that "each
Chinese decoyed or kidnapped was disposed of for a sum varying from
$100 to $1,000." The rule of wages at which they are contracted is,
relatively to the higher prices of everything in Cuba, less than they
wound receive in China, and insufficient for their wants, leaving them
little or nothing at the end of a term of labor. Then they are kept at
work much beyond the 10 hours daily provided in the regulations, are
denied holidays, are beaten, and mutilated, and insufficiently fed,
and from these causes die in large numbers.  When their contacts
expire, instead of being allowed their freedom, if they refuse to
recontract themselves they are treated as vagrants and put upon the
public works like convicts, until they reengage themselves, or are
sold into service. At the end of their second contract they are again
subjected to the same mistreatment.  Murders and suicide, sickness and
death, follow such a wretched existence in many cases; and out of more
than 140,000 who have gone to Cuba since 1847, when the traffic began,
only 60,000 remain alive.  Thirty thousand have died since the treaty
was made in 1864. Of the 142,422 Chinese in all who have gone to Cuba,
99,149 went from Macao alone, and 35,694 of this number, after the
date of the convention by which Macao was excluded from the localities
at which the engaging of coolies was permitted, only 1,200 laborers
was shipped from Chinese ports subsequent to the treaty made with
Spain; for at those ports the Imperial customs authorities and foreign
consuls were an effective check on the trade of crimps and
kidnappers. The Commissioners say that nearly all the coolies they met
in Cuba bore evidence of ill-treatment and had takes of suffering to
tell.  They would gladly return home, but the withholding of
certificates of completion at the end of the terms of labor, the
detention in depots, the forced reengagement for long terms, the
treatment of them when disengaged as vagabonds, the extortions
practiced upon them, the high rates at which passports are charged,
make escape from the island extremely difficult.  Altogether the
evidence goes to show a system of fraud, perfidy, and cruelty
unsurpassed in the annals of negro slavery. It is quite likely that
some of the depositions may be dishonest or exaggerated; that the very
worst features of the coolie traffic are put most prominent, and that
some things charged as wrongs may be justified or satisfactorily
explained; but, after making these charitable allowances, there is a
large residuum of simple truth, going to show such injustice and
inhumanity as makes one shudder,

The representatives of the five powers, apprehending that the
arbitration would be long and tedious, endeavored to find an easier
mode of settlement. Minister Avery gives a minute account of the
negotiations between the arbitrators, the Spanish Chargé d’Affaires,
and the Yamen. The conference finally broke up without
result. Mr. Avery says:

With the most earnest disposition to achieve a settlement that shall
provide for humane treatment of the poor coolies, prevent any but
voluntary emigration on fair terms in the future, and do justice to
China without offending the amour propre of Spain, the five
representatives have found their task so far very trying and
difficult.  The Chinese feel so strong in their case that they
evidently expect arbitration would result in a verdict more
satisfactory to their pride than a friendly settlement on a basis of
mutual concession. It is useless to reason with them further. They are
far more likely to come to terms if we present to them squarely the
alternative of indefinite prolongation of a quarrel already of three
years' standing, which may possibly be made more unpleasant for them
by the course that the new Spanish Minister way pursue,

In one of his interviews with the Viceroy or Governor-General of the
Province, Li Hung Chang, Mr. Avery was asked whether Chinese could be
admitted to the Military Academy at West Point. Mr, Avery, in his
letter to Mr.  Fish, wrote:

The act of Aug. 3, 1861, :For the better organization of the military
establishment" (Statutes at Large, Vol.  12, p. 288, sec. 8), requires
from each cadet an oath of allegiance to the Constitution and
Government of the United States, This requirement, which would seem to
have been dictated by the sad examples of bad faith afforded by the
Rebellion, is, so far as I can ascertain, the only bar to the
admission to the Military Academy, in the discretion of the
President. by appointment at large, of any Chinese having the
prescribed age and literary qualifications; and this if, I am right,
and have not overlooked some essential act, would be no bar in the
case of a Chinese applicant qualified as above and willing to take the
prescribed oath.  As it is probable, however, that no Chinese would
care to denationalize himself, and as the very object in view would be
to fit himself for usefulness to his native country, the only
practical question remaining is this: Would the State Department or
the War Department, or both, be willing to recommend, and would
Congress be willing to authorize as a matter of good will to China,
and as a means of helping this Empire to a just appreciation of
Western science, the appointment by the President of a limited number
of properly qualified Chinese into the Military Academy, without
requiring of them the oath of allegiance to the United States? If
authority to this end were granted, one, two, or three experimental
appointments might be made by selections from the ranks of those
Chinese students in American schools who have latterly been sent over
by the Chinese Government under the charge of a special commissioner,
Yung Wing, who is himself a graduate of one of our colleges.  The
special friendliness and confidence felt toward the United States by
China are evinced by her preference of our country to any other for
the education of a portion of her people in our language, learning,
and arts. I am sure that the admission of a few Chinese, out of the
60,000 living in our country, to the Military Academy, would enhance
the good-will enjoyed by us, would contribute to the enlightenment and
advancement of this people, and would ultimately redound to our
material advancement.
