Name: 1897-01-30-lamar_register.txt
Date: 1897-01-30
Paper: The Lamar register.
Paperkey: lamar_register
Page: 6
City: lamar
State: CO colorado
Url: 
Title: 
Author: 
---

The arrival of thirty Chinese boys a few days threw the quiet New
Jersey village of Metuchen into a flutter of excitement, says the New
York Herald. These little fellows have been brought over to this
country by the Rev. Huie Kin, a Chinese missionary, to be educated
according to Western ideas. I made them a visit last week. Before I
left they handed me a message written in Chinese.

This was written by Jeng Seung, a bright looking boy of 14. He is
regarded as the finest Chinese scholar among them. He told me that if
he had remained in China he would be ready this year to compete in the
public examinations for official honors. His tutor is said to have
strenuously opposed his coming to America, maintaining that the boy’s
future prospects should not be lightly thrown away. But his father set
such a high value on western education that he let the boy go.

Chin Sune Wing is another of the bright boys. He is 15 years old and
has attended school in China since he was 6. He was taken from one of
the mission schools at Canton, to which he was admitted four years
ago. His father is a local Chinese preacher. I succeeded in getting a
connected account of the journey from him. This is his story, put into
English:

“My father and mother are both living. I have five brothers. One of
them is now in Boston. I wrote home as soon as we landed in San
Francisco. I wrote again after we reached here. We had a nice time all
the way. From Hong Kong to Nagasaki every one of us was seasick. Then
at Nagasaki the Japanese made all the passengers go on shore and take
a bath. We did not mind that a bit.

“From Yokohama to San Francisco all of us felt well and were not
seasick at all. We had plenty of good things to cat on board. The
steward often brought us turkey, beef, lamb and other things, and we
just helped ourselves. We had a part of the ship all to ourselves and
were allowed to go on the upper deck and play ball with the other
passengers. Our steamer stopped at Honolulu, but we did not go
ashore. When we reached San Francisco we were kept on board the
steamer three days on account of some trouble with the customs
officials.

“We spent three weeks in San Francisco. During that time we did
nothing but go sightseeing. We visited the museums and public
parks. We saw many wonderful things. The merry-go-round was one of
them. We paid 5 cents and took a ride on the wooden horses.

“There was a machine that puzzled us a great deal, and we got lots of
fun out of it. If you drop a nickel into it the needle will whirl
round a few times and finally come to a standstill, pointing to a
certain figure which indicates your weight. But if you don’t put a
nickel in it you may stand on the platform all day and the needle will
not move an inch.

“We had heard so much about steam cars in China that we were quite
excited when we got on board the train for the first time. We had a
special car to ourselves. How the train flew over the track! I tried
to count the telegraph poles but had to give up after awhile.

“Near Los Angeles we saw a number of Chinese waving their hands at
us. We had to change cars at New Orleans. As we passed through
Washington our attention was called to a tall monument. We took a look
at it.

“When we were in China we heard a good deal about how Americans
ill-treated our people. Since our arrival kindness has been shown us
on every side. Heaven must be a place something like this.”

The boys still wear their native garments but they are beginning to
find that these are not suitable to their changed surroundings. While
I was there a little fellow had just bought a pair of russet shoes and
was showing them to his admiring companions.

For amusement they played checkers, kicked footballs and picked
blackberries. Once a week an American friend of theirs calls and gives
them lessons in baseball.

The boys are required to devote certain hours every day to studying
English. For this purpose they are divided into three classes. They
seem to pick up English rapidly. By September it is expected that they
will begin their studies in real earnest.
