Name: 1877-09-13-carson_city_appeal.txt
Date: 1877-09-13
Paper: Morning appeal.
Paperkey: carson_city_appeal
Page: 2
City: carson city
State: NV nevada
Url: http://www.loc.gov/resource/sn86076999/1877-09-13/ed-1/?sp=2
Title: 
Author: 
---

THE CHINESE STUDENTS IN CONNECTICUT.

For the edification of such Pacific Coasters as think they have become
acquainted with John Chinaman in all his varieties and capacities, and
that by resolutions and conventions and spouting in clubs the
so-called Mongolian problem is disposed of, we reproduce the following
which appears in an Eastern print under date of Hartford, Connecticut
Sept. 1:

A thick-set, short man, broad featured, and of a billious complexion,
attired in the latest style, is a daily passenger on the morning and
evening trains between Hartford and Avon. He might be taken for a
Spaniard, but except for the broad nostrils, would never pass for a
native of China. Such however, he is, and the head of the Chinese
Educational Commission, whose headquarters are in Hartford, and who
have in their charge one hundred and fifteen of the brightest lads in
all the Chinese Empire.

Thirty years ago this man, then a lad in an interior Chinese village,
was picked up by an American Missionary, and the stories he heard of
the wonderful land across the Pacific induced him to run the risk that
a native of China then incurred who left his country, and come to
America. After his arrival several gentlemen interested themselves in
him. He was put to school, and at length he was graduated at Yale
Colledge.  He was the first native of China to take a collegiate
degree.

Yung Wing's ten years in this country thoroughly Americanized him, and
he decided to make it a life work to pry open the eyes of his sleeping
fellow countrymen, and show them what their real condition is, and
what they must do to put themselves on an equality with other nations.

He went back to China and began to work.  He was too shrewd to tell
the mandarins at first that China is far behind the rest of the
world. He said nothing for some years, but made himself so valuable by
the use of certain knowledge and suggestions that he had gathered in
the United States, that he soon became a person of some
influence. Then he began to slyly drop hints as to the way in which
things were done in America. So he went on cautiously for the
mandarins are very bigoted until at last he suggested, and, as his
influence grew more powerful, urged his plan, and in 1869, nearly
twenty years after his return to China, the Emperor consented. He was
allowed to choose one hundred and fifteen boys, from seven to fourteen
years of age, and to bring them to this country and give them such
training as he saw fit.  For this purpose the Chinese Government
appropriated $1,000,000, and in 1872 the first party of boys arrived
in Hartford, followed in 1873 and 1874 by others.

With them came Yung Wing and four assistants and their servants, and
these at their home in this city make with the boys a Chinese home not
only as peculiar as the Chinese, but unlike any other Chinese people
in the United States. These represent the wealthy aristocratic
Chinese. They are no more like the laundry John than the directors are
like the laborers on a railroad.

As soon as the boys reached Hartford they were put by twos with
American farmers families in Connecticut and Massachusetts towns, so
that they might learn the language as quickly as possible. But so that
their Chinese schooling might not be lost, they come alternately to
the headquarters in Hartford and spend three weeks in exclusively
Chinese studies. A fine edifice has been erected in Hartford by Yung
Wing, near the residences of Marshal Jewell, Gen Hawley, Mark Twain
and Harriet Beecher Stowe.

Some of the boys have got far enough along to enter Yale College, and
in the school contests they have beaten their American
schoolmates. From college they will go to the professional schools,
particularly the scientific studies, and then will be ready to return
to China, where they will spend their lives as teachers.

It is Yung Wing's opinion that the influence of one hundred and
fifteen able men, thoroughly educated, and, more than all, thoroughly
Americanized by the fifteen years spent there in their boyhood, cannot
fail of ultimately removing all obstacles that Chinese bigotry has
thus far put up to progress.

The social life of the assistants whom Yung Wing brought over recently
received some prominence by a false rumor circulated by two New York
newspapers. Yung Wing is a mandarin of the fifth rank. His four
assistants are Ngeu, fifth rank; Yung, sixth; Kwong, sixth, and Len,
seventh. Yung Wing himself has been naturalized, and is an American
citizen. He has an American wife, sister of Dr. Kellogg, an
influential physician of Hartford. His habits, attire, and religious
belief are American.

Ngeu is a quiet man, and likes a good dinner and society. With him are
two wives and this fact has been generally known in Hartford. Both
wives are sometimes seen on the sidewalk, and occasionally receive
American ladies, But they are never seen with Ngeu, and never appear
at any or his entertainments.  This, not because he has two wives
here, but because Chinese custom requires it. Ngeu has three children
by one wife, but one by the other, although it has been reported that
the recent birth of a child by the second wife within four months of
a previous birth, led to the discovery that both women were Ngeu's
wives. There has been no such discovery in Hartford; for every one who
knew Ngeu knew that he was living with two wives.

Kurny, the interpreter, has his second wife with him. His first and
the children by her are in China. Yung and Leu left their wives in
China.

These mandarins live in elegant style, and are much given to
receptions. They entertain handsomely. To be invited to their great
dinners, of which four or five are given annually is a treat greatly
prized in Hartford.  These dinners are given in Chinese style, and
consist of some twelve courses of exclusively Chinese dishes, such as
dried shell fish, shark s fins, a kind of fish bowels, which looks
like maccaroni, birds nests, and some vegetables, for which Americans
have no name.  The mandarins frequently leave the table and their
guests for a while to smoke, and then return to resume their
eating. They are very polite. They dress in the choicest of Chinese
silks, and drink a wine made of rice, which is very treacherous, as
some of the dignified deacons who have dined with them and just sipped
the wine have found out, to Hartford's scandal.

In their discipline with the boys and their duties the Commissioners
are very faithful, and are constantly watching for some improvement in
naval or land warfare, of which they promptly inform their Government.
Their watchfulness in this respect has already resulted in contracts
for torpedoes and Sharp's rifles.
